---
id: index
title: tctl command reference
sidebar_label: index
description: How to use Temporal's tctl developer tool
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This documentation reflects tctl version 1.17.

The Temporal CLI (tctl) is a command-line tool that you can use to interact with a Temporal Cluster.
It can perform [Namespace](/namespaces#) operations (such as register, update, and describe) and [Workflow](/workflows#) operations (such as start
Workflow, show Workflow History, and Signal Workflow).

- [How to install tctl](#install)
- [Environment variables for tctl](#environment-variables)
- [How to add a custom Search Attribute to a Cluster using tctl](/tctl/admin/cluster/add-search-attributes)

## tctl commands

- [`tctl activity`](/tctl/activity/)
- [`tctl batch`](/tctl/batch/)
- [`tctl cluster`](/tctl/cluster/)
- [`tctl data-converter`](/tctl/data-converter/)
- [`tctl namespace`](/tctl/namespace/)
- [`tctl task-queue`](/tctl/taskqueue/)
- [`tctl workflow`](/tctl/workflow/)

## Install

> The Temporal tctl documentation covers version 1.16 of the Temporal CLI.

You can install [tctl](/tctl) in the following ways.

- Install locally by using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/): `brew install tctl`
- Run locally together with Temporal Server in [docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose): `docker exec temporal-admin-tools tctl YOUR COMMANDS HERE`
  - To invoke [tctl](/tctl) as though it is installed locally (such as `tctl namespace describe`), set an alias: `alias tctl="docker exec temporal-admin-tools tctl"`
- Run the [temporal-admin-tools](https://hub.docker.com/r/temporalio/admin-tools) Docker image:
  - On Linux: `docker run --rm -it --entrypoint tctl --network host --env TEMPORAL_CLI_ADDRESS=localhost:7233 temporalio/admin-tools:1.14.0`
  - On macOS or Windows: `docker run --rm -it --entrypoint tctl --env TEMPORAL_CLI_ADDRESS=host.docker.internal:7233 temporalio/admin-tools:1.14.0`
  - If your Temporal Server is running on a remote host, change the value of `TEMPORAL_CLI_ADDRESS`.
  - To simplify command lines, create a `tctl` alias.
- Build it locally:
  1. Clone the [Temporal Server repo](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal).
  1. Run `make tctl`.
  1. Copy the `tctl` executable to any directory that appears in the `PATH` environment variable; for example, `/usr/bin/`.
- Install the latest version of the tctl in your `GOPATH`: `go install github.com/temporalio/tctl/cmd/tctl@latest`

**Note:** To use [tctl](/tctl), you must have a Temporal Server running.

To see help for [tctl](/tctl) commands, enter the following commands.

| Command             | Description                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `tctl -h`           | Display help for top-level commands and global options      |
| `tctl namespace -h` | Display help for [Namespace](/namespaces#) operations       |
| `tctl workflow -h`  | Display help for [Workflow](/workflows#) operations         |
| `tctl taskqueue -h` | Display help for [Task Queue](/tasks#task-queue) operations |

## Global modifiers

Global modifiers are provided after `tctl` in the command structure but before the commands themselves.
For example:

```
tctl --address <value> workflow start --task_queue <value> ...
```

You can supply the values for many of these modifiers by setting [environment variables](#environment-variables) instead of including the modifiers in each tctl command.

### `--address`

Specify a host and port for the Frontend Service.
The default is `127.0.0.1:7233`.

Alias: `--ad`

### `--auto_confirm`

Automatically confirm all prompts.

### `--context_timeout`

Specify a timeout for the context of an RPC call in seconds.
The default value is 5.

Alias: `--ct`

### `--data_converter_plugin`

Specify the name of the executable for a headers provider plugin.

Alias: `--dcp`

### `--headers_provider_plugin`

Specify the name of the executable for a custom Data Converter plugin.

Alias: `--hpp`

### `--help`

Display help for tctl in the CLI.

Alias: `-h`

### `--namespace`

Specify a Namespace.
By using this modifier, you don't need to specify a `--namespace` modifier for a sub-command.
The default Namespace is `default`.

Alias: `--ns`

### `--tls_ca_path`

Specify the path to a server Certificate Authority (CA) certificate file.

### `--tls_cert_path`

Specify the path to a public X.509 certificate file for mutual TLS authentication.
If you use this modifier, you must also use the `--tls_key_path` modifier.

### `--tls_disable_host_verification`

Disable verification of the server certificate (and thus host verification).

### `--tls_key_path`

Specify the path to a private key file for mutual TLS authentication.
If you use this modifier, you must also use the `--tls_cert_path` modifier.

### `--tls_server_name`

Specify an override for the name of the target server that is used for TLS host verification.
The name must be one of the DNS names listed in the server TLS certificate.
Specifying this modifier also enables host verification.

### `--version`

Display the version of tctl in the CLI.

Alias: `-v`

### `--codec_endpoint`

The URL and port number for a Codec Server.

## Environment variables

Setting environment variables for repeated parameters can shorten tctl commands.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_ADDRESS

Specify a host and port for the Frontend Service.
The default is `127.0.0.1:7233`.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN

Specify a token to be used by the HTTP Basic Authorization plugin.

<!-- TODO: Add link to "Securing tctl" page or its equivalent when it exists. -->

### TEMPORAL_CLI_NAMESPACE

Specify a Namespace.
By setting this variable, you don't need to specify a `--namespace` modifier in a tctl command.
The default Namespace is `default`.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_PLUGIN_DATA_CONVERTER

Specify the name of the executable for a custom Data Converter plugin.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_PLUGIN_HEADERS_PROVIDER

Specify the name of the executable for a headers provider plugin.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_CA

Specify the path to a server Certificate Authority (CA) certificate file.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_CERT

Specify the path to a public X.509 certificate file for mutual TLS authentication.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_DISABLE_HOST_VERIFICATION

Set to disable verification of the server certificate (and thus host verification).

### TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_KEY

Specify the path to a private key file for mutual TLS authentication.
If you set this variable, you must also set the `TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_CERT` variable.

### TEMPORAL_CLI_TLS_SERVER_NAME

Specify an override for the name of the target server that is used for TLS host verification.
The name must be one of the DNS names listed in the server TLS certificate.
Setting this variable also enables host verification.

### TEMPORAL_CONTEXT_TIMEOUT

Specify a timeout for the context of an RPC call in seconds.
The default value is 5.
