---
id: schedule
title: tctl schedule command reference
sidebar_label: schedule
description: How to use the tctl schedule command
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

A [Schedule](/workflows#schedule) is an experimental feature and the `schedule` command is available in versions 1.17.0-alpha.2 and later.
Version 1.17.0-alpha.2 is currently available in version 1.16.2.
Use `tctl config set version next` command while on version 1.16.2.

- [Backfill a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#backfill)
- [Create a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#create)
- [Delete a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#delete)
- [Describe a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#describe)
- [List Schedules using tctl](/tctl/schedule#list)
- [Toggle Pause on Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#toggle)
- [Trigger an Action on a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#trigger)
- [Update a Schedule using tctl](/tctl/schedule#update)

## backfill

Backfilling a Schedule means having it do now what it would have done over a specified time range (generally in the past, although it won't prevent you from giving a time range in the future).
You might use this to fill in runs from a time period when the Schedule was paused due to an external condition that's now resolved, or a period before the Schedule was created.

```shell
tctl schedule backfill --sid 'your-schedule-id' \
  --overlap-policy 'BufferAll'                \
  --start-time '2022-05-01T00:00:00Z'         \
  --end-time   '2022-05-31T23:59:59Z'
```

Note that, similar to [tctl schedule trigger](/tctl/schedule#trigger) immediately, you probably want to override the Overlap Policy.
Specifying `AllowAll` runs all the backfilled Workflows at once; `BufferAll` runs them sequentially.
The other policies don't make much sense in this context.

## create

With tctl, create a Schedule like this:

```shell
$ tctl config set version next   # ensure you're using the new tctl
$ tctl schedule create \
    --sid 'your-schedule-id' \
    --interval '5h/15m' \
    --cal '{"dayOfWeek":"Fri","hour":"11","minute":"3"}' \
    --overlap-policy 'BufferAll' \
    --wid 'your-workflow-id' \
    --tq 'your-task-queue' \
    --type 'YourWorkflowType'
```

This Schedule takes action every 5 hours at 15 minutes past the hour and also at 11:03 on Fridays.
It starts a Workflow `YourWorkflowType` on Task Queue `your-task-queue`, giving it a Workflow Id like `your-workflow-id-2022-06-17T11:03:00Z`.
Workflows do not be run in parallel.
If they would other overlap, they are buffered to run sequentially.

See `tctl schedule create --help` for the full set of available options.

## delete

A Schedule can be deleted.

Deleting a Schedule **does not** affect any Workflows started by the Schedule.
Workflow Executions started by Schedules can be cancelled or terminated using the same methods as any others.
However, Workflow Executions started by a Schedule can be identified by the Search Attributes added to them and can be targeted by a [batch](/tctl/batch#) command for termination.

```shell
$ tctl schedule delete --sid 'your-schedule-id'
```

## describe

Display the current Schedule configuration as well as extra information about past, current, and future Runs.

```shell
tctl schedule describe --sid 'your-schedule-id'
```

## list

```shell
tctl schedule list
```

Note that if you're using Standard Visibility, listing Schedules will currently only include Schedule Ids and no other information.

## toggle

```shell
$ tctl schedule toggle --sid 'your-schedule-id' --pause --reason "paused because the database is down"
$ tctl schedule toggle --sid 'your-schedule-id' --unpause --reason "the database is back up"
```

## trigger

Starting a Workflow Run immediately with a Schedule, regardless of its configured Spec, is a common use case.

```shell
$ tctl schedule trigger --sid 'your-schedule-id'
```

Note that the action that it takes is subject to the Overlap Policy of the Schedule by default: if the overlap policy is `Skip` and a Workflow is already running, the triggered Action to start the next Workflow Run is skipped!
Likewise, if the overlap policy is `BufferAll`, the triggered run is buffered behind one or more runs.

If you really want it to run right now, you can override the overlap policy for this request:

```shell
$ tctl schedule trigger --sid 'your-schedule-id' --overlap-policy 'AllowAll'
```

## update

Any part of the Schedule configuration can be updated at any time.

`tctl schedule update` takes the same options as `tctl schedule create` and replaces the entire configuration of the schedule with what's provided.

This means if you want to change just one value, you have to provide everything else again.
