---
id: namespaces
title: How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud
sidebar_label: Namespaces
sidebar_position: 2
description: Create Namespaces, use Namespace endpoints for access, and obtain Namespace information.
slug: /cloud/namespaces
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- explanation
- how-to
- introduction
- namespaces
- temporal cloud
- term
tags:
- explanation
- how-to
- introduction
- namespaces
- temporal-cloud
- term
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

A Namespace is a unit of isolation within the Temporal Platform.

- [Create a Namespace](#create-a-namespace)
- [Access a Namespace](#access-namespaces)
- [Manage Namespaces](#manage-namespaces)
- [Delete a Namespace](#delete-a-namespace)

## What is a Cloud Namespace Name? {#temporal-cloud-namespace-name}

A Cloud Namespace Name is a customer-supplied name for a [Namespace](/namespaces) in Temporal Cloud.
Each Namespace Name, such as `accounting-production`, is unique within the scope of a customer's account.
It cannot be changed after the Namespace is provisioned.

Each Namespace Name must conform to the following rules:

- A Namespace Name must contain at least 2 characters and no more than 39 characters.
- A Namespace Name must begin with a letter, end with a letter or number, and contain only letters, numbers, and the hyphen (-) character.
- Each hyphen (-) character must be immediately preceded _and_ followed by a letter or number; consecutive hyphens are not permitted.
- All letters in a Namespace Name must be lowercase.

## What is a Temporal Cloud Account Id? {#temporal-cloud-account-id}

A Temporal Cloud Account Id is a unique identifier for a customer for the entire time they use Temporal Cloud.
Temporal Technologies assigns each Account Id, which is an opaque code of five or six alphanumeric characters, such as `f45a2`.
The Account Id is shown in the upper-right corner of Workflows and Schedules listed in the Web UI.

:::info

For more information on obtaining a Temporal Cloud Account Id, see our [Cloud account commands](/cloud/tcld/account#get) page.

:::

## What is a Cloud Namespace Id? {#temporal-cloud-namespace-id}

A Cloud Namespace Id is a globally unique identifier for a [Namespace](/namespaces) in Temporal Cloud.
A Namespace Id is formed by concatenating the following:

1. A [Namespace Name](#temporal-cloud-namespace-name)
1. A period (.)
1. The [Account Id](#temporal-cloud-account-id) to which the Namespace belongs

For example, for the Account Id `f45a2` and Namespace Name `accounting-production`, the Namespace Id is `accounting-production.f45a2`.

## How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud {#create-a-namespace}

:::info

The user who creates a [Namespace](/namespaces) is automatically granted [Namespace Admin](/cloud/users#namespace-level-permissions) permission for that Namespace.

To create a Namespace, a user must have the Developer or Global Admin account-level [Role](/cloud/users#account-level-roles).

:::

:::tip

By default, each account has a quota of 10 Namespaces.
If you want to increase this limit, open a [support ticket](/cloud/support#support-ticket).

:::

<!--- What information do I need to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud? --->

### Information needed to create a Namespace

To create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud, gather the following information:

- [Namespace Name](#temporal-cloud-namespace-name) and region.
- [Retention Period](/clusters#retention-period) for the [Event History](/workflows#event-history) of closed [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution).
- [CA certificate](/cloud/certificates#certificate-requirements) for the Namespace.
- [Codec Server endpoint](/self-hosted-guide/data-encryption#set-your-codec-server-endpoints-with-web-ui-and-cli) to show decoded payloads to users in the Event History for Workflow Executions in the Namespace. For details, see [Securing your data](/self-hosted-guide/data-encryption#).
- [Permissions](/cloud/users#namespace-level-permissions) for each user.

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI --->

### Create a Namespace using Temporal Cloud UI

1. Gather the information listed earlier in [Information needed to create a Namespace](#information-needed-to-create-a-namespace).
1. Go to the Temporal Cloud UI and log in.
1. On the left side of the window, click **Namespaces**.
1. On the **Namespaces** page, click **Create Namespace** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Create Namespace** page in **Name**, enter the Namespace Name.
1. In **Region**, select the region in which to host this Namespace.
1. In **Retention Period**, specify a value from 1 to 90 days.
   When choosing this value, consider your needs for Event History versus the cost of maintaining that Event History.
   Typically, a development Namespace has a short retention period and a production Namespace has a longer retention period.
   (If you need to change this value later, contact [Temporal Support](/cloud/support#support-ticket).)
1. In **Certificate**, paste the CA certificate for this Namespace.
1. Optional: In **Codec Server**, enter the URL and port number of your Codec Server endpoint.
   For details, see [Securing your data](/self-hosted-guide/data-encryption#).
1. Click **Create Namespace**.

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using tcld --->

### Create a Namespace using tcld

See the [tcld namespace create](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#create) command reference for details.

## What are some Namespace best practices? {#best-practices}

This section provides general guidance for organizing [Namespaces](/namespaces) across use cases, services, applications, or domains.
Temporal Cloud provides Namespace–as-a-service, so the Namespace is the endpoint.
Customers should consider not only a Namespace naming convention but also how to group or isolate workloads using the Namespace as a boundary.

### Constraints and limitations

Before considering an appropriate Namespace configuration, you should be aware of the following constraints:

- Each Temporal account has a default limit of 10 Namespaces.
  You can request an increase by [creating a ticket for Temporal Support](/cloud/support#support-ticket).
- Cross-Namespace communications between [Workflows](/workflows) is not yet supported.
  For now, you can use the [SDK client](/temporal#temporal-client) from within an [Activity](/activities) as a workaround.
- Each Namespace has a rate limit ("throttling").
  The default rate limit is 200 Actions per second but can be increased via a support ticket.
- Each Namespace has a service-level agreement (SLA) of 99.9% uptime.
- For now, Namespaces are single-region only.
- A Namespace is a security isolation boundary.
  Access to Temporal by [Worker Processes](/workers#worker-process) is permitted at the Namespace level.
  Isolating applications or environments (development, test, staging, production) should take this into consideration.
- A Namespace is an endpoint.
  To access a Namespace from a Temporal Client requires mTLS authorization, which requires [CA certificates](/cloud/certificates#ca-certificates).
- [Workflow Id](/workflows#workflow-id) uniqueness is per Namespace.
- [Task Queue](/workers#task-queue) names are unique per Namespace.
- Closed Workflow retention is per Namespace.
- RBAC [permissions](/cloud/users#namespace-level-permissions) are implemented at the Namespace level.

### General guidance

Namespace configuration requires some consideration.
Following are some general guidelines to consider.

- Namespaces are usually defined per use case.
  A use case can encompass a broad range of Workflow types and a nearly unlimited scale of concurrent [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution).
- Namespaces can be split along additional boundaries such as service, application, domain or even sub-domain.
- Environments such as production and development usually have requirements for isolation.
  We recommend that each environment has its own Namespace.
- Namespaces should be used to reduce the "blast radius" for mission-critical applications.
- Workflows that need to communicate with each other should (for now) be in the same Namespace.
- If you need to share Namespaces across team or domain boundaries, be sure to ensure the uniqueness of Workflow Ids.

### Examples

Following are some ideas about how to organize Namespaces.

#### Example 1: Namespace per use case and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case and environment combination for simple configurations in which multiple services and team or domain boundaries don't exist.

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

#### Example 2: Namespace per use case, service, and environment

We recommend using one Namespace for each use case, service, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of same use case communicate externally to Temporal via API (HTTP/gRPC).

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;service>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

#### Example 3: Namespace per use case, domain, and environment

We recommend using one namespace per use case, domain, and environment combination when multiple services that are part of the same use case need to communicate with each another via [Signals](/workflows#signal) or by starting [Child Workflows](/workflows#child-workflow).
In this case, though, you must be mindful about Workflow Id uniqueness by prefixing each Workflow Id with a service-specific string.
The name of each Task Queue must also be unique.
If multiple teams are involved, the domain could also represent a team boundary.

Sample naming convention:

<pre>
&lt;use-case>_&lt;domain>_&lt;environment>
</pre>

Sample workflowId convention:

<pre>
&lt;service-string>_&lt;workflow-id>
</pre>

## How to access a Namespace in Temporal Cloud {#access-namespaces}

<!--- How to access a Namespace in Temporal Cloud --->

Each Namespace in Temporal Cloud has two unique endpoints, both of which include the [Namespace Id](#temporal-cloud-namespace-id).

- For programmatic access, a gRPC endpoint in the form `<NamespaceId>.tmprl.cloud`; for example, `accounting-production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233`.
- For accessing Temporal Web UI, an HTTPS endpoint in the form `https://cloud.temporal.io/namespaces/<namespaceId>`; for example, `https://cloud.temporal.io/namespaces/accounting-production.f45a2`.

## How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud {#manage-namespaces}

<!--- How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI --->

### Manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI

To list Namespaces:

- On the left side of the window, select **Namespaces**.

To edit a Namespace (including custom Search Attributes, certificates, certificate filters, Codec Server endpoint, permissions, and users), find the Namespace and do either of the following:

- On the right end of the Namespace row, select the three vertical dots (⋮). Click **Edit**.
- Select the Namespace name. In the top-right portion of the page, select **Edit**.

On the **Edit** page, you can do the following:

- Add a [custom Search Attribute](/visibility#custom-search-attributes).
- [Manage CA certificates](/cloud/certificates).
- [Manage certificate filters](/cloud/certificates#manage-certificate-filters-using-temporal-cloud-ui).
- Set [Codec Server endpoint](/self-hosted-guide/data-encryption#set-your-codec-server-endpoints-with-web-ui-and-cli) for all users on the Namespace.
  Each user on the Namespace has the option to [override this setting](/self-hosted-guide/data-encryption#web-ui) in their browser.
- Manage [Namespace-level permissions](/cloud/users#namespace-level-permissions).
- Add users.

To add a user to a Namespace, scroll to the bottom of the page and select **Add User**.

After you make changes, select **Save** in the top-right or bottom-left portion of the page.

<!--- How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using tcld --->

### Manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using tcld

To list Namespaces and get information about them, use the following [tcld](/cloud/tcld/) commands:

- [tcld namespace list](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#list)
- [tcld namespace get](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#get)

To manage certificates, use the [tcld namespace accepted-client-ca](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#accepted-client-ca) commands.
For more information, see [How to manage certificates in Temporal Cloud](/cloud/certificates#).

To manage certificate filters, use the [tcld namespace certificate-filters](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#certificate-filters) commands.
For more information, see [How to manage certificate filters in Temporal Cloud](/cloud/certificates#manage-certificate-filters).

## How to delete a Namespace in Temporal Cloud {#delete-a-namespace}

:::info

To delete a Namespace, a user must have Namespace Admin [permission](/cloud/users#namespace-level-permissions) for that Namespace.

:::

### Delete a Namespace using Temporal Cloud UI

1. Go to the Temporal Cloud UI and log in.
1. On the left side of the window, select **Namespaces**.
1. On the **Namespaces** page, select a Namespace Name.
1. On the Namespace page, select **Edit** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Edit** Namespace page, select **Delete Namespace** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. In the **Delete Namespace** dialog, type `DELETE` to confirm the deletion of that Namespace.
1. Select **Delete**.

### Delete a Namespace using tcld

See the [tcld namespace delete](/cloud/tcld/namespace/#delete) command reference for details.

