---
id: patching
title: Patching TypeScript Workflows
sidebar_label: Patching (Migrating)
---

Workflow code has to be [deterministic](/docs/typescript/determinism) by taking the same code path when replaying history events.
Any Workflow code change that affects the order in which commands are generated breaks this assumption.

So we have to keep both the old and new code when migrating Workflows while they are still running:

- When replaying, use the original code version that generated the ongoing event history.
- When executing a new code path, always execute the
  new code.

## Introduction to Versioning

Because we design for potentially long running workflows at scale, versioning with Temporal works differently than with other workflow systems.
We explain more in this optional 30 minute introduction:

:::info

In principle, the TypeScript patching mechanism works similarly to the one presented in the video, however, the API is different.

:::

import { ResponsivePlayer } from '../../src/components'

<ResponsivePlayer url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kkP899WxgzY' />

## TypeScript Patching API

Given an initial Workflow version `v1`:

```ts
// v1
export async function myWorkflow(): Promise<void> {
  await activityA();
  await activityThatMustRunAfterA();
}
```

We decide to update our code and run `activityB` instead.
This is our desired end state, `vFinal`.

```ts
// vFinal
export async function myWorkflow(): Promise<void> {
  await activityB();
}
```

**Problem: We cannot directly deploy `vFinal` until we know for sure there are no more running Workflows created using `v1` code.**

Instead we must deploy `v2` (below) and use the [`patched`](https://nodejs.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#patched) function to check which version of the code should be executed.

Patching is a three step process:

1. Patch in new code with `patched` and run it alongside old code
2. Remove old code and `deprecatePatch`
3. When you are sure all old Workflows are done executing, remove `deprecatePatch`

### Step 1: Patch in new code

`patched` inserts a marker into the Workflow history. During replay, when a Worker picks up a history with that marker it will fail the Workflow task when running Workflow code that does not emit the same patch marker (in this case `my-change-id`); therefore it is safe to deploy `v2` alongside the original version (`v1`).

```ts
// correct v2
import { patched } from '@temporalio/workflow';

export async function myWorkflow(): Promise<void> {
  if (patched('my-change-id')) {
    await activityB();
  } else {
    await activityA();
    await activityThatMustRunAfterA();
  }
}
```

### Step 2: Deprecate patch

Once we know that all Workflows started with `v1` code have completed we can [deprecate the patch](https://nodejs.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#deprecatepatch).
Deprecated patches bridge between `v2` and `vFinal` (the end result), they work similarly to regular patches by recording a marker in the Workflow history, this marker does not fail replay when Workflow code does not emit it.

If while we're deploying `v3` (below) there are still live Workers running `v2` code and those Workers pick up Workflow histories generated by `v3`, they will safely use the patched branch.

```ts
// v3
import { deprecatePatch } from '@temporalio/workflow';

export async function myWorkflow(): Promise<void> {
  deprecatePatch('my-change-id');
  await activityB();
}
```

### Step 3: Solely deploy new code

`vFinal` is safe to deploy once all `v2` or earlier workflows are complete due to the assertion mentioned above.

## Upgrading Workflow dependencies

Upgrading Workflow dependencies (such as ones installed into `node_modules`) _might_ break determinism in unpredictable ways.
It is highly recommended to use a lock file (`package-lock.json` or `yarn.lock`) in order to fix Workflow dependency versions and gain control of when they're updated.
