---
id: how-to-manage-namespaces-in-temporal-cloud
title: How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud
sidebar_label: Manage Namespaces
description: Create Namespaces, use Namespace endpoints for access, and obtain Namespace information.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

A Namespace is a unit of isolation within the Temporal Platform.

- [Create a Namespace](#create-a-namespace)
- [Access a Namespace](#access-a-namespace)
- [Manage Namespaces](#manage-namespaces)

## Create a Namespace

:::info

The user who creates a [Namespace](/namespaces) is automatically granted [Namespace Admin](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions) permission for that Namespace.

:::

:::tip

By default, each account has a quota of 10 Namespaces.
If you want to increase this limit, open a support ticket.

:::

<!--- What information do I need to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud? --->

### Information needed to create a Namespace

To create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud, gather the following information:

- [Namespace Name](/cloud/#cloud-namespace) and region
- [Retention Period](/clusters/#retention-period) for the [Event History](/workflows#event-history) of closed [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution)
- [CA certificate](/cloud/how-to-manage-certificates-in-temporal-cloud#certificate-requirements) for the Namespace
- [Permissions](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions) for each user

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI --->

### Create a Namespace using Temporal Cloud UI

1. Gather the information listed earlier in [Information needed to create a Namespace](#information-needed-to-create-a-namespace).
1. Go to the Temporal Cloud UI and log in.
1. On the left side of the window, click **Namespaces**.
1. On the **Namespaces** page, click **Create Namespace** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Create Namespace** page in **Name**, enter the Namespace Name.
1. In **Region**, select the region in which to host this Namespace.
1. In **Retention Period**, specify a value from 1 to 90 days.
   When choosing this value, consider your needs for Event History versus the cost of maintaining that Event History.
   Typically, a development Namespace has a short retention period and a production Namespace has a longer retention period.
   (If you need to change this value later, contact Temporal Support.)
1. In **Certificate**, paste the CA certificate for this Namespace.
1. Click **Create Namespace**.

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using tcld --->

### Create a Namespace using tcld

This functionality is in development.

## Access Namespaces

<!--- How to access a Namespace in Temporal Cloud --->

Each Namespace in Temporal Cloud has two unique endpoints, both of which include the [Namespace Id](/cloud/#cloud-namespace-id).

- For programmatic access, a gRPC endpoint in the form `<NamespaceId>.tmprl.cloud`; for example, `accounting-production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud:7233`.
- For accessing Temporal Web UI, an HTTPS endpoint in the form `web.<namespaceId>.tmprl.cloud`; for example, `https://web.accounting-production.f45a2.tmprl.cloud`.

## Manage Namespaces

<!--- How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI --->

### Manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI

This functionality is in development.

<!--- How to manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using tcld --->

### Manage Namespaces in Temporal Cloud using tcld

To list Namespaces and get information about them, use the following [tcld](/cloud/tcld/) commands:

- [tcld namespace list](/cloud/tcld/namespace/list)
- [tcld namespace get](/cloud/tcld/namespace/get)

To manage certificates, use the [tcld namespace accepted-client-ca](/cloud/tcld/namespace/accepted-client-ca/) commands.
For more information, see [How to manage certificates in Temporal Cloud](/cloud/how-to-manage-certificates-in-temporal-cloud).

To manage certificate filters, use the [tcld namespace certificate-filters](/cloud/tcld/namespace/certificate-filters/) commands.
For more information, see [How to manage certificate filters in Temporal Cloud](/cloud/how-to-manage-certificates-in-temporal-cloud#manage-certificate-filters).
