---
id: how-to-get-started-with-temporal-cloud
title: How to get started with Temporal Cloud
sidebar_label: Get started
description: Create an account, get certificates, create a Namespace, and invite users.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

<!--- Onboarding guide for Temporal Cloud --->

You received email from Temporal that welcomes you to your new Temporal account.
Your email address is now the first [Global Admin](/cloud/#account-level-roles) for your account.

To get started with Temporal Cloud, following these onboarding steps:

<!--- 1. [Create an account.](#create-an-account-in-temporal-cloud) --->

1. [Issue CA certificates.](#issue-ca-certificates)
1. [Create a Namespace.](#create-a-namespace)
1. [Invite users.](#invite-users)

## Issue CA certificates

You must provide your own certificates to access Temporal Cloud.

### Requirements for CA certificates

Certificates provided to Temporal for your [Namespaces](/namespaces) _must_ meet the following requirements.

### CA certificates

CA certificates _must_ meet the following criteria:

- The certificates must be X.509v3.
- Each certificate in the bundle must be either a root certificate or issued by another certificate in the bundle.
- Each certificate in the bundle must include `CA: true`.
- A certificate cannot be a well-known CA (such as DigiCert or Let's Encrypt) _unless_ the user also specifies certificate filters.
- The signing algorithm must include SHA-256 or stronger.
  SHA-1 and MD5 signing algorithms are rejected.

### End-entity certificates

An end-entity (leaf) certificate _must_ meet the following criteria:

- The certificate must be X.509v3.
- Basic constraints must include `CA: false`.
- The key usage must include Digital Signature.
- The signing algorithm must include SHA-256 or stronger.
  SHA-1 and MD5 signing algorithms are rejected.

When a client presents an end-entity certificate, and the whole certificate chain is constructed, each certificate in the chain (from end-entity to the root) must have a unique Distinguished Name.

:::caution

Distinguished Names are _not_ case sensitive; that is, uppercase letters (such as ABC) and lowercase letters (such as abc) are equivalent.

:::

### Issue root CA and end-entity certificates

Temporal Cloud authenticates a client connection by validating the client certificate against one or more CA certificates that are configured for the specified Namespace.

### Option 1: You already have certificate management infrastructure

If your existing certificate management infrastructure supports issuing CA and end-entity certificates, it satisfies the requirements.
When you configure the client SDK, you must present a complete certificate chain up to the CA certificate given to Temporal.

### Option 2: You have no certificate management infrastructure

If you don't have existing certificate management infrastructure, you can issue the CA and client certificates by using tools such as OpenSSL.

We also provide a tool that issues one root CA and the required end-entity certificate to use on the client SDK.
The tool can issue multiple end-entity certificates.
We've kept this tool minimal because it is a demonstration tool; **it is _not_ meant to be used in production.**

You can use this tool in two ways:

- Follow the instructions for the [temporalio/client-certificate-generation](https://hub.docker.com/r/temporalio/client-certificate-generation) image in Docker Hub.
  This procedure is the easiest because it's independent of your operating system.
- Follow the README instructions in the [client-only](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-server/tree/main/tls/client-only) directory in our `temporalio/samples-server` repository in GitHub.

:::info

The maximum number of CA certificates in a certificate bundle is 16. The payload size of a certificate bundle (before base64-encoding) is 32 KB.

:::

## Create a Namespace

:::info

The user who creates a [Namespace](/namespaces) is automatically granted [Namespace Admin](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions) permission for that Namespace.

:::

<!--- What information do I need to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud? --->

### Information needed to create a Namespace

To create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud, gather the following information:

- [Namespace Name](/cloud/#cloud-namespace), region, and environment
- [Retention period](/clusters/#retention-period) for [Event History](/workflows#event-history) of closed [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-executions)
- [CA certificate](/cloud/how-to-manage-certificates-in-temporal-cloud#requirements-for-client-certificates) for the Namespace
- [Roles](/cloud/#account-level-roles) for each user

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using Temporal Cloud UI --->

### Create a Namespace using Temporal Cloud UI

1. Gather the information listed earlier in [Information needed to create a Namespace](#information-needed-to-create-a-namespace).
1. In a browser, go to [https://cloud.temporal.io](https://cloud.temporal.io) and log in.
1. On the left side of the window, click **Namespaces**.
1. On the **Namespaces** page, click **Create Namespace** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Create Namespace** page in **Name**, enter the Namespace Name.
1. In **Region**, select the region in which to host this Namespace.
1. In **Retention Period**, select the appropriate timespan. (You can modify this value later.)
1. In **Certificate**, paste the CA certificate for this Namespace.
1. Click **Create Namespace**.

<!--- How to create a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using tcld --->

### Create a Namespace using tcld

This functionality is in development.

## Invite users

:::caution

Access to Temporal Cloud is authorized via single sign-on (SSO), currently limited to Google OAuth.
The email addresses of all users who need access to Temporal Cloud must be registered with Google.

If an email address is not associated with a Google Account, the user must follow the instructions in the [Use an existing email address](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/27441?hl=en#existingemail) section of [Create a Google Account](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/27441).

**Important:** Do _not_ create a Gmail account when creating a Google Account.

:::

When you create a user in Temporal Cloud, the prospective user receives an email invitation.
Before accepting the invitation, the user must be logged in to Google using the email address that received the invitation.
The user must then click **Accept Invite** in the message.
Attempting to log in to Temporal Cloud without first accepting the invite doesn't work.

### Roles and permissions

Each user in Temporal Cloud is assigned a Role.
Each user can be assigned permissions for individual Namespaces.

- [Account-level Roles](/cloud/#account-level-roles)
- [Namespace-level permissions](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions)

<!--- How to invite users in Temporal Cloud using Web UI --->

### Invite users using Web UI

1. In Temporal Web UI, click **Settings** in the lower-left portion of the window.
1. On the **Settings** page, click **Create Users** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Create Users** page in the **Email Addresses** box, type or paste one or more email addresses.
1. In **Account-Level Role**, select a [Role](/cloud/#account-level-roles).
   The Role applies to all users whose email addresses appear in **Email Addresses**.
1. If the account has any Namespaces, they are listed under **Grant access to Namespaces**.
   To add a permission, select the checkbox next to a Namespace, and then select a [permission](/cloud/#namespace-level-permissions).
   Repeat as needed.
1. When all permissions are assigned, click **Send Invite**.

Temporal sends an email message to each user.
To join Temporal Cloud, a user must click **Accept Invite** in the message.
