---
id: what-is-the-operational-envelope-of-temporal-cloud
title: Temporal Cloud's Operational Envelope
sidebar_label: Operational envelope
sidebar_position: 2
description: Temporal Cloud's SLA, throughput, and latency.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- guide-context
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

## SLA

Temporal Cloud provides 99.99% availability and 99.9% guarantee against service errors.

Our 99.9% guarantee against service errors is measured by capturing all requests coming in during a 5-minute interval and calculating how many errors occurred during that interval. It is then averaged per month and reset on a quarterly basis. It is calculated on a per-region basis as: `1 - (count of errors received / count of requests in the region)`.

Errors recorded against the 99.9% guarantee are service failures: for example, the `Unavailable` [gRPC status code](https://grpc.github.io/grpc/core/md_doc_statuscodes.html).

Errors not counted against the SLA include:

- `ClientVersionNotSupported`
- `ShardOwnershipLost`
- `InvalidArgument`
- `NamespaceAlreadyExists`
- `NamespaceNotActive`
- `NamespaceNotFound`
- `NamespaceInvalidState`
- `NotFound`
- `PermissionDenied`
- `QueryFailed`
- `RetryReplication`
- `StickyWorkerUnavailable`
- `TaskAlreadyStarted`
- `Throttling` (resources exhausted - triggers retry)
- `WorkflowExecutionAlreadyStarted`
- `WorkflowNotReady`

Our internal alerting is based on our own SLO for all errors, not just errors counting against the SLA. On-call engineers are paged when we receive alerts because of SLOs not being met, which often means that issues are resolved before they become noticeable.

Internally, our components are distributed across a minimum of 3 availability zones per region.

Recent incidents can be found at [status.temporal.io](https://status.temporal.io/).

## Throughput

A namespace has a default quota of 200 action/s.
To raise the quota, open a [support ticket](/cloud/how-to-create-a-ticket-for-temporal-support).
Temporal Cloud can handle more than 150,000 actions/s.

Actions can be throttled when they exceed your quota.
Actions like Start or Signal Workflow Execution always receive higher priority than other Actions, even when throttled.

## Latency

Our Latency SLO is 200ms per region for p99.

Latency is greatly influenced by the actual throughput of a single Workflow Execution.
Concurrent operation on the same Workflow Execution could lead to increased latency.
