---
id: testing
title: Application development - Testing
sidebar_label: Testing
description: The Testing section of the Temporal Application development guide covers the many ways to test the state of your Temporal Application; that is, ways to view which Workflow Executions are tracked by the Platform and the state of any given Workflow Execution, either currently or at points of an execution.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

The testing section of the Temporal Application development guide describes the frameworks that facilitate Workflow and integration testing.

In the context of Temporal, you can create these types of automated tests:

- **End-to-end**: Running a Temporal Server and Worker with all its Workflows and Activities; starting and interacting with Workflows from a Client.
  - Running Activities with mocked Context and other SDK imports (and usually network requests).
  - Running Workers with mock Activities, and using a Client to start Workflows.
  - Running Workflows with mocked SDK imports.
- **Integration**: Anything between end-to-end and unit testing, including:
- **Unit**: Running a piece of Workflow or Activity code (a function or method) and mocking any code it calls.

We generally recommend writing the majority of your tests as integration tests.

For both end-to-end tests and integration tests with a Worker, we recommend using the Test Server, as it supports [skipping time](#skip-time).

## Test Activities

Activities can be tested with a mock Activity environment, which provides a way to mock Activity context, listen to heartbeats, and cancel the Activity. This allows you to test the Activity in isolation by calling it directly, without needing to create a Worker to run the Activity.

### Run an Activity

If an Activity references its context, you need to mock that context when testing in isolation.

### Listen to Heartbeats

When an Activity sends Heartbeats, you want to be able to see them in your test code in order to assert they’re correct.

### Cancel an Activity

If an Activity is supposed to react to Cancellation, you can test whether it reacts correctly by canceling it.

## Test Workflows

### Mock Activities

When unit testing Workflows, you can mock the Activity invocation. When integration testing Workflows with a Worker, you can mock Activities by providing mock Activity implementations to the Worker.

### Skip Time

Running Workflow code in integration and end-to-end tests often requires the ability to skip time: you need your tests to run in seconds or minutes, but a Workflow might sleep for a day, or have Activity failures with long retry intervals. While testing, you don’t need to test whether the sleep function works—you can trust Temporal functionality to correctly execute. Instead, you want to test the logic that happens after sleeping. You can skip forward a day during testing to see what happens in a timely manner.

:::note

Skipping time is not relevant to unit testing Workflow code, since in that case you’re mocking functions that take time like sleep and Activity calls.

:::

The Test Server included in most SDKs is an in-memory implementation of Temporal Server that supports skipping time. Time is a global property of an instance of the Test Server: if you skip time (either automatically or manually), it applies to all currently running tests. If you need different time behaviors for different tests, they need to be run in series or with separate Test Server instances. For example, you could run all tests with automatic time skipping in parallel, and then all tests with manual time skipping in series, and then all tests without time skipping in parallel.

#### Setting up

Learn to set up the Time Skip server in the SDK of your choice.

#### Automatic method

Learn to Time Skip automatically in the SDK of your choice.

#### Manual method

Learn to Time Skip manually in the SDK of your choice.

#### Skip Activities

Learn to Time Skip Activities in the SDK of your choice.

### Workflow context

In order for a function or method to be run in the Workflow context (where it’s possible to get the current Workflow info, or running inside the sandbox/isolate in the case of TS and Python), it needs to be run by the Worker as if it were a Workflow.

:::note

This section is applicable in Python and TypeScript. In Python we only allow testing of Workflows and not generic Workflow-related code.

:::

## Test Frameworks

Some SDKs have support for or examples with popular test frameworks/runners/libraries.

## Debug

### Debug in a development environment

In addition to the normal development tools of logging and a debugger, you can also see what’s happening in your Workflow by using the [Web UI](/web-ui) or [`tctl`](/tctl/).

### Debug in a development production

You can debug production Workflows using:

- [Web UI](/web-ui)
- [`tctl`](/tctl/)
- [Replay](#replay)
- [Tracing](/application-development/observability#tracing)
- [Logging](/application-development/observability#logging)

You can debug and tune Worker performance with metrics and the [Worker performance guide](/application-development/worker-performance). See [Observability ▶️ Metrics](/application-development/observability#metrics) for setting up SDK metrics.

You can debug Server performance with [Cloud metrics](/cloud/how-to-monitor-temporal-cloud-metrics) or [self-hosted Server metrics](/server/production-deployment#scaling-and-metrics).

## Replay

Replay recreates the exact state of a Workflow Execution.
You can replay a Workflow from the beginning of its history when resumed.

Replay allows code to resume only if it is compatible from a deterministic point of view.

To retrieve the Workflow History, use any of the following options and then pass the object to your SDK of choice.

<Tabs
defaultValue="go"
groupId="site-lang"
values={[{label: 'Go', value: 'go'},{label: 'Java', value: 'java'},{label: 'PHP', value: 'php'},{label: 'Python', value: 'python'},{label: 'TypeScript', value: 'typescript'},]}>

<TabItem value="go">

Use the [worker.WorflowReplayer](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/worker#WorkflowReplayer) to replay an existing Workflow Execution from its Event History to replicate errors.

For example, the following code retrieves the Event History of a Workflow:

```go
import (
	"context"

	"go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1"
	"go.temporal.io/api/history/v1"
	"go.temporal.io/sdk/client"
)

func GetWorkflowHistory(ctx context.Context, client client.Client, id, runID string) (*history.History, error) {
	var hist history.History
	iter := client.GetWorkflowHistory(ctx, id, runID, false, enums.HISTORY_EVENT_FILTER_TYPE_ALL_EVENT)
	for iter.HasNext() {
		event, err := iter.Next()
		if err != nil {
			return nil, err
		}
		hist.Events = append(hist.Events, event)
	}
	return &hist, nil
}
```

This history can then be used to _replay_.
For example, the following code creates a `WorkflowReplayer` and register the `YourWorkflow` Workflow function.
Then it calls the `ReplayWorkflowHistory` to _replay_ the Event History and return an error code.

```go
import (
	"context"

	"go.temporal.io/sdk/client"
	"go.temporal.io/sdk/worker"
)

func ReplayWorkflow(ctx context.Context, client client.Client, id, runID string) error {
	hist, err := GetWorkflowHistory(ctx, client, id, runID)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	replayer := worker.NewWorkflowReplayer()
	replayer.RegisterWorkflow(YourWorkflow)
	return replayer.ReplayWorkflowHistory(nil, hist)
}
```

The code above will cause the Worker to re-execute the Workflow's Workflow Function using the original Event History.
If a noticeably different code path was followed or some code caused a deadlock, it will be returned in the error code.
Replaying a Workflow Execution locally is a good way to see exactly what code path was taken for given input and events.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="java">

Content is currently unavailable.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="php">

Content is currently unavailable.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python">

To replay a Workflow Execution, use the [`replay_workflow()`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.worker.replayer#replay_workflow) method and pass a Workflow History as an argument.

In the following example, `history_json_str` references the Workflow History as a JSON string.

```python
async def run_replayer(history_json_str: str):
    replayer = Replayer(workflows=[YourWorkflow])
    await replayer.replay_workflow(history_json_str)
```

If the Workflow History is non-deterministic, `run_replayer()` raises an error.

:::note

If the Workflow History is exported by [Temporal Web UI](/web-ui) or through [tctl](/tctl), you can pass the JSON file history object as a JSON string or as a Python dictionary through the `json.load()` function, which takes a file object and returns the JSON object.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="typescript">

Content is currently unavailable.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
