---
id: users
title: How to manage users in Temporal Cloud
sidebar_label: Users
sidebar_position: 3
description: Invite users, set account level roles, and set Namespace-level positions for users.
slug: /cloud/users
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- explanation
- how-to
- introduction
- namespace
- namespaces
- temporal cloud
- temporal cloud account
- users
tags:
- explanation
- how-to
- introduction
- namespace
- namespaces
- temporal-cloud
- temporal-cloud-account
- users
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

- [How to invite users to your Temporal Cloud account](#invite-users)
- [What are the account-level roles?](#account-level-roles)
- [What are the Namespace-level permissions?](#namespace-level-permissions)
- [How to update an account-level Role in Temporal Cloud](#update-roles)
- [How to update Namespace-level permissions in Temporal Cloud](#update-permissions)
- [How to delete a user from your Temporal Cloud account](#delete-users)

## How to invite users to your Temporal Cloud account {#invite-users}

When you create a user in Temporal Cloud, the prospective user receives an email invitation.
Before accepting the invitation, the user must be logged in to the email address that received the invitation.
The user must then select **Accept Invite** in the message.
Attempting to log in to Temporal Cloud without first accepting the invite doesn't work.

:::info

To invite users, a user must have the Global Admin account-level [Role](#account-level-roles).

:::

### Roles and permissions

Each user in Temporal Cloud is assigned a Role.
Each user can be assigned permissions for individual Namespaces.

- [Account-level Roles](#account-level-roles)
- [Namespace-level permissions](#namespace-level-permissions)

<!--- How to invite users to your Temporal Cloud account using Web UI --->

### How to invite users using Web UI

1. In Temporal Web UI, select **Settings** in the left portion of the window.
1. On the **Settings** page, select **Create Users** in the upper-right portion of the window.
1. On the **Create Users** page in the **Email Addresses** box, type or paste one or more email addresses.
1. In **Account-Level Role**, select a [Role](#account-level-roles).
   The Role applies to all users whose email addresses appear in **Email Addresses**.
1. If the account has any Namespaces, they are listed under **Grant access to Namespaces**.
   To add a permission, select the checkbox next to a Namespace, and then select a [permission](#namespace-level-permissions).
   Repeat as needed.
1. When all permissions are assigned, select **Send Invite**.

Temporal sends an email message to each user.
To join Temporal Cloud, a user must select **Accept Invite** in the message.

<!--- How to invite a user to your Temporal Cloud account using tcld --->

### How to invite a user using tcld

For details, see the [tcld user invite](/cloud/tcld/user#invite) command.

Temporal sends an email message to the specified user.
To join Temporal Cloud, the user must select **Accept Invite** in the message.

## What are the account-level Roles for users in Temporal Cloud? {#account-level-roles}

When a Global Admin invites a user to join an account, the Global Admin selects one of the following Roles for that user:

- **Global Admin**
  - Has full administrative permissions across the account, including users and usage
  - Has Namespace Admin [permissions](#namespace-level-permissions) on all [Namespaces](/namespaces#) in the account
- **Developer**
  - Can create and update Namespaces; has full control over [Workflows](/workflows#)
  - Has Namespace Admin permissions for each Namespace created by that user
- **Read-Only:** Can only read information

## What are the Namespace-level permissions for users in Temporal Cloud? {#namespace-level-permissions}

A [Global Admin](#account-level-roles) can assign permissions for any [Namespace](/namespaces#) in an account.
A Developer can assign permissions for a Namespace they create.

For a Namespace, a user can have one of the following permissions:

- **Namespace Admin:** Can [create](/cloud/namespaces#create-a-namespace) and [edit Namespaces](/cloud/namespaces#manage-namespaces); can create, rename, update, and delete [Workflows](/workflows#)
- **Write:** Can create, rename, update, and delete Workflows within the Namespace
- **Read-Only:** Can only read information from the Namespace

## How to update an account-level Role in Temporal Cloud {#update-roles}

You can update the account-level [Role](#account-level-roles) for a user by using either Web UI or tcld.

:::info

To update an account-level Role, a user must have the Global Admin account-level Role.

:::

<!-- How to update an account-level Role in Temporal Cloud using Web UI -->

### How to update an account-level Role using Web UI

1. In Temporal Web UI, select **Settings** in the left portion of the window.
1. On the **Settings** page, select the user.
1. On the user profile page, select **Edit User**.
1. On the **Edit User** page in **Account Level Role**, select the Role.
1. Select **Save**.

<!-- How to update an account-level Role in Temporal Cloud using tcld -->

### How to update an account-level Role using tcld

For details, see the [tcld user set-account-role](/cloud/tcld/user#set-account-role) command.

## How to update Namespace-level permissions in Temporal Cloud {#update-permissions}

You can update Namespace-level [permissions](#namespace-level-permissions) by using either Web UI or tcld.

<!-- How to update Namespace-level permissions for a Namespace in Temporal Cloud using Web UI -->

### How to update Namespace-level permissions for a Namespace using Web UI

1. In Temporal Web UI, select **Namespaces** in the left portion of the window.
1. On the **Namespaces** page, select the Namespace.
1. If necessary, scroll down to the list of permissions
1. On the user profile page in **Namespace permissions**, select the Namespace.
1. On the Namespace page in **Account Level Role**, select the Role.
1. Select **Save**.

<!-- How to update Namespace-level permissions for a user in Temporal Cloud using Web UI -->

### How to update Namespace-level permissions for a user using Web UI

:::note

A user who has the Global Admin account-level [Role](#account-level-roles) has Namespace Admin permissions for all Namespaces.

:::

1. In Temporal Web UI, select **Settings** in the left portion of the window.
1. On the **Settings** page in the **Users** tab, select the user.
1. On the user profile page, select **Edit User**.
1. On the **Edit User** page in **Namespace permissions**, change the permissions for one or more Namespaces.
1. Select **Save**.

<!-- How to update an account-level Role in Temporal Cloud using tcld -->

### How to update Namespace-level permissions using tcld

For details, see the [tcld user set-namespace-permissions](/cloud/tcld/user#set-namespace-permissions) command.

## How to delete a user from your Temporal Cloud account {#delete-users}

You can delete a user from your Temporal Cloud Account by using either Web UI or tcld.

:::info

To delete a user, a user must have the Global Admin account-level [Role](#account-level-roles).

:::

<!-- How to delete a user from your Temporal Cloud account using Web UI -->

### How to update an account-level Role using Web UI

1. In Temporal Web UI, select **Settings** in the left portion of the window.
1. On the **Settings** page, find the user and, on the right end of the row, select **Delete**.
1. In the **Delete User** dialog, select **Delete**.

You can delete a user in two other ways in Web UI:

- User profile page: Select the down arrow next to **Edit User** and then select **Delete**.
- **Edit User** page: Select **Delete User**.

<!-- How to delete a user from your Temporal Cloud account using tcld -->

### How to update an account-level Role using tcld

For details, see the [tcld user delete](/cloud/tcld/user#delete) command.
