---
id: what-is-a-failure-converter
title: What is a Failure Converter?
sidebar_label: Failure Converter
description: A Failure Converter converts error objects to proto Failures and back.
tags:
  - term
  - explanation
---

As with input and output, Temporal also uses its own default converter logic for errors that are generated by Workflows.
The default Failure Converter copies error messages and stack traces as plain text, and this text output is then directly accessible in the `Message` field of these Workflow Executions.

This may be undesirable for your application. In some cases, errors could contain privileged or sensitive information that you would need to prevent from leaking or being available via a side channel.
Failure messages and stack traces are not encoded as codec-capable Payloads by default; you must explicitly enable encoding these common attributes on failures.

If your errors might contain sensitive information, you can encrypt the message and stack trace by configuring the default Failure Converter to use your encoding.
This moves your `message` and `stack_trace` fields to a Payload that's run through your codec.

For example, with the Temporal Go SDK, you can do this by adding a `FailureConverter` parameter to your `client.Options{}` array when calling `client.Dial()`.
The `FailureConverter` should override the `DefaultFailureConverterOptions{}` by setting `EncodeCommonAttributes: true` like so:

```go
c, err := client.Dial(client.Options{
	// Set DataConverter here to ensure that workflow inputs and results are
	// encoded as required.
	DataConverter: mycustom.DataConverter,
	FailureConverter: temporal.NewDefaultFailureConverter(temporal.DefaultFailureConverterOptions{
		EncodeCommonAttributes: true,
	}),
})
```

If for some reason you need to specify a different set of Converter logic for your Failures, you can replace the `NewDefaultFailureConverter` with a custom method.
For example, if you are both working with highly sensitive data and using a sophisticated logging/observability implementation, you may need to implement different encryption methods for each of them.
