---
id: what-is-an-event
title: What is an Event?
sidebar_label: Event
description: Events are created by the Temporal Cluster in response to external occurrences and Commands generated by a Workflow Execution.
tags:
  - term
  - explanation
---

Events are created by the Temporal Cluster in response to external occurrences and Commands generated by a Workflow Execution. Each Event corresponds to an `enum` that is defined in the [Server API](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/master/temporal/api/enums/v1/event_type.proto).

All Events are recorded in the [Event History](/concepts/what-is-an-event-history).

A list of all possible Events that could appear in a Workflow Execution Event History is provided in the [Event reference](/references/events).

#### Activity Events

Seven Activity-related Events are added to Event History at various points in an Activity Execution:

- After a [Workflow Task Execution](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-task-execution) reaches a line of code that starts/executes an Activity, the Worker sends the Activity Type and arguments to the Temporal Cluster, and the Cluster adds an [ActivityTaskScheduled](/references/events#activitytaskscheduled) Event to Event History.
- When `ActivityTaskScheduled` is added to History, the Cluster adds a corresponding Activity Task to the Task Queue.
- A Worker polling that Task Queue picks up the Activity Task and runs the Activity function or method.
- If the Activity function returns, the Worker reports completion to the Cluster, and the Cluster adds [ActivityTaskStarted](/references/events#activitytaskstarted) and [ActivityTaskCompleted](/references/events#activitytaskcompleted) to Event History.
- If the Activity function throws a [non-retryable Failure](/references/failures#non-retryable), the Cluster adds [ActivityTaskStarted](/references/events#activitytaskstarted) and [ActivityTaskFailed](/references/events#activitytaskfailed) to Event History.
- If the Activity function throws an error or retryable Failure, the Cluster schedules an Activity Task retry to be added to the Task Queue (unless you’ve reached the Maximum Attempts value of the [Retry Policy](/retry-policies), in which case the Cluster adds [ActivityTaskStarted](/references/events#activitytaskstarted) and [ActivityTaskFailed](/references/events#activitytaskfailed) to Event History).
- If the Activity’s [Start-to-Close Timeout](/concepts/what-is-a-start-to-close-timeout) passes before the Activity function returns or throws, the Cluster schedules a retry.
- If the Activity’s [Schedule-to-Close Timeout](/concepts/what-is-a-schedule-to-close-timeout) passes before Activity Execution is complete, or if [Schedule-to-Start Timeout](/concepts/what-is-a-schedule-to-start-timeout) passes before a Worker gets the Activity Task, the Cluster writes [ActivityTaskTimedOut](/references/events#activitytasktimedout) to Event History.
- If the Activity is [canceled](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution#cancellation), the Cluster writes [ActivityTaskCancelRequested](/references/events#activitytaskcancelrequested) to Event History, and if the Activity accepts cancellation, the Cluster writes [ActivityTaskCanceled](/references/events#activitytaskcanceled).

:::note

While the Activity is running and retrying, [ActivityTaskScheduled](/references/events#activitytaskscheduled) is the only Activity-related Event in History: [ActivityTaskStarted](/references/events#activitytaskstarted) is written along with a terminal Event like [ActivityTaskCompleted](/references/events#activitytaskcompleted) or [ActivityTaskFailed](/references/events#activitytaskfailed).

:::
