---
id: operating-envelope
title: What is the operating envelope of Temporal Cloud?
sidebar_label: Operating envelope
sidebar_position: 2
description: The operating envelope of Temporal Cloud includes availability, regions, throughput, and latency.
slug: /cloud/operating-envelope
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- error
- explanation
- introduction
- limits
- operations
- temporal cloud
- warn
tags:
- error
- explanation
- introduction
- limits
- operations
- temporal-cloud
- warn
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

The operating envelope of Temporal Cloud includes availability, regions, throughput, and latency.
If you need more details, [contact us](https://pages.temporal.io/contact-us).

## What is Temporal Cloud's SLA on Availability? {#availability}

Temporal Cloud provides 99.99% availability, and its service level agreement (SLA) has a 99.9% guarantee against service errors.

To calculate the service-error rate, we capture all requests that arrive in a region during a five-minute interval and record the number of gRPC service errors that occurred.
For each region, we calculate the service-error rate as `1 - (count of errors / count of requests)`.
Rates are averaged per month and reset quarterly.

Errors that are recorded against the SLA are service errors, such as the `UNAVAILABLE` [gRPC status code](https://grpc.github.io/grpc/core/md_doc_statuscodes.html).

Errors that aren't counted against the SLA include the following:

- ClientVersionNotSupported
- InvalidArgument
- NamespaceAlreadyExists
- NamespaceInvalidState
- NamespaceNotActive
- NamespaceNotFound
- NotFound
- PermissionDenied
- QueryFailed
- RetryReplication
- ShardOwnershipLost
- StickyWorkerUnavailable
- TaskAlreadyStarted
- Throttling (resources exhausted; triggers retry)
- WorkflowExecutionAlreadyStarted
- WorkflowNotReady

Our internal alerting system is based on our service level objectives (SLO) for all errors, not just errors that count against the SLA.
When we receive an alert that an SLO is not being met, we page our on-call engineers, which often means that issues are resolved before they become noticeable.

Internally, our components are distributed across a minimum of three availability zones per region.

For current system status and information about recent incidents, see [Temporal Status](https://status.temporal.io).

## Where is Temporal Cloud hosted and running? {#regions}

Temporal Cloud currently runs in 10 regions in Amazon Web Services (AWS):

| Area          | Code           | Region            |
| ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- |
| Asia Pacific  | ap-northeast-1 | Tokyo             |
| Asia Pacific  | ap-south-1     | Mumbai            |
| Asia Pacific  | ap-southeast-1 | Singapore         |
| Asia Pacific  | ap-southeast-2 | Sydney            |
| Europe        | eu-central-1   | Frankfurt         |
| Europe        | eu-west-1      | Ireland           |
| Europe        | eu-west-2      | London            |
| North America | ca-central-1   | Central Canada    |
| North America | us-east-1      | Northern Virginia |
| North America | us-east-2      | Ohio              |
| North America | us-west-2      | Oregon            |

Furthermore, it is compatible with applications deployed in any cloud environment or data center.

To reduce latency, we recommend that you create your [Namespace](/namespaces#) in a region that is geographically close to where your [Workers](/workers#worker) are hosted, but your Workers and [Client](/temporal#temporal-client) code don't need to be hosted on AWS.

## What kind of throughput can I get with Temporal Cloud? {#throughput}

A Namespace has a default quota of 200 [Actions](/cloud/pricing#action) per second with spikes up to 400 Actions per second.
However, Temporal Cloud can provide more than 150,000 Actions per second.

If your Action rate exceeds your quota, Temporal Cloud throttles Actions until the rate matches your quota.
Actions like Start or Signal Workflow Execution always receive higher priority than other Actions, even when throttled.

To raise your quota, create a [support ticket](/cloud/support#support-ticket).

## What kind of latency can I expect from Temporal Cloud? {#latency}

Our latency SLO is 200ms per region for p99.
In June 2023, latency measurements over a week period for starting and signaling Workflow Executions were:

- `StartWorkflowExecution`: 90ms p90, 125ms p99
- `SignalWorkflowExecution`: 53ms p90, 95ms p99
- `SignalWithStartWorkflowExecution`: 87ms p90, 116ms p99

As we continue working on improving latencies, these numbers will decrease over time

Concurrent operations on the same Workflow Execution could lead to increased latency.

## What are the Temporal Platform limits? {#upgrade-policy}

This section describes many of the default settings and limits that apply to associated parameters in Temporal Cloud.

Some of these default limits are configurable by sending a [support ticket](/cloud/support#support-ticket) to our support team.

### What is the maximum length for identifiers?

Identifiers such as Workflow Id, Workflow Type, and Task Queue names have a maximum length of 1000 characters in UTF-8 format.

This default limit is configurable by creating a [support ticket](/cloud/support#support-ticket).

### What is the gRPC limit for each message received?

Each gRPC message received has a limit of 4 MB.

### What is the maximum limit for an Event batch size?

The `DefaultTransactionSizeLimit` is configured at 4 MB, representing the maximum allowable transaction size for persisting Event Histories.

### What are the default limits at the Namespace level?

At the Namespace level, Temporal Cloud sets the following default limits:

- Actions per second: 200 (with spikes to 400)
- Certificates: 32 KB payload or 16 certificates, whichever is smaller
- Concurrent Task pollers: 2,000 (configurable; maximum of 100,000)

### What is the Concurrent limit?

If the concurrent pending count of certain Commands exceeds 2,000, they will fail. These commands include:

- `ScheduleActivityTask`
- `SignalExternalWorkflowExecution`
- `RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution`
- `StartChildWorkflowExecution`

This default limit is configurable by creating a [support ticket](/cloud/support#support-ticket).

### What are the default limits for users and Namespaces at the account level?

At the account level, Temporal Cloud sets the following default limits:

- Users: 100
- Namespaces: 10

### What is the limit for Prometheus endpoint Retention Period?

The Prometheus endpoint Retention Period is 1 month.

### What is the default retention period?

Temporal Cloud sets the default Retention Period to 30 days and is configurable in the Temporal Web UI.

### What is the limit on the number of Signals received per Workflow Execution?

The number of Signals received per Workflow Execution to 10,000.

### What are the default limits for Custom Search Attributes?

The default limits for Custom Search Attributes in Temporal Cloud (maximum per type) are:

- `bool`: 20
- `double`: 20
- `datetime`: 20
- `int`: 20
- `keyword`: 20
- `text`: 5

### Are there any limitations on List Filters?

Yes, the `ORDER BY` operator isn't supported in List Filters in Temporal Cloud.

This means that custom ordering of Workflows with Cloud Visibility features isn't possible. Lists of Workflows are still ordered by a default ordering rule, but be aware that this rule might change.
