---
id: pricing
title: Pricing - Temporal Cloud
sidebar_label: Pricing
sidebar_position: 6
description: Temporal Cloud pricing information
slug: /cloud/pricing
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- explanation
- faq
- introduction
- pricing
- security
- storage
- support
- temporal cloud
- term
tags:
- explanation
- faq
- introduction
- pricing
- security
- storage
- support
- temporal-cloud
- term
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

Temporal Cloud is a consumption-based service; you pay only for what you need when you need it. Our [pricing](https://temporal.io/pricing) derives from your use of _actions_, _storage_, and _support_. Pricing is flexible, transparent, and predictable, so you know your costs and never pay for unused capacity.

This page introduces the elements of Temporal Cloud pricing—[actions](#action), [storage](#storage), and [support](#support)—so that you can estimate costs for your implementation. To gain a reliable estimate, [contact our team](https://pages.temporal.io/contact-us).

## What is an Action? {#action}

Actions are the fundamental consumption pricing unit in Temporal Cloud.
An Action in Temporal occurs as part of an execution of your Workflow.
Each time you execute a Temporal Workflow (a Workflow Execution), the associated Actions are collected and ultimately represent the state and progress of your Temporal Application.

Actions are collected and billed monthly for each Namespace. The base rate is $25 per one million Actions, and you are billed only for the prorated amount of Actions you use. If you use fewer than one million Actions per month, your bill for Actions will be less than $25 for that month.

| **Actions per month** | **Cost per 1M (USD)** |
| --------------------- | --------------------- |
| Any number            | $25.00 (prorated)     |

Alternatively, Temporal also offers a credit system. Credits provide an additional discount schedule for both billable Actions and storage. Credits do not expire. The following table outlines cost estimates and discount bands for the credits system. Please reach out to the team if you are interested in this option.

| **Actions per month (millions)** | **Cost per 1M (USD)** | **Cost band**       | **Actions per second** |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| 0 to 299                         | $23.25                | $0–$7,500           | ~115                   |
| 300 to 1,499                     | $18.80                | $5,640–$28,200      | ~570                   |
| 1,500 to 7,499                   | $14.10                | $21,150–$105,750    | ~2,860                 |
| 7,500 to 29,999                  | $10.50                | $78,750–$315,000    | ~11,400                |
| 30,000 to 149,999                | $7.90                 | $237,000–$1,185,000 | ~57,000                |
| 150,000 or more                  | $5.90                 | Begins at $885,000  | n/a                    |

The following operations result in Actions.

**Workflows**

- **Workflow started.**
  Occurs via client start, client Signal-With-Start, [Continue-As-New](/workflows#continue-as-new), or [Child Workflow](/workflows#child-workflow) start.
  If a Workflow start fails, an Action is not recorded.
- **Workflow reset.**
  Occurs when a [Workflow](/workflows#) is reset.
  (Actions that occur before a [Reset](/workflows#reset) are counted even if they are no longer visible in [Event History](/workflows#event-history).)
- **Timer started.**
  Includes implicit Timers that are started by a Temporal SDK when timeouts are set, such as `AwaitWithTimeout` in Go or `condition` in TypeScript.
- **Search Attribute upsert requested.**
  Occurs after a Workflow starts and invokes `UpsertSearchAttributes`.
- **Signal sent.**
  Includes sending a [Signal](/workflows#signal) from a client or from within a Workflow to another Workflow.
- **Query received.** [Queries](/workflows#query) aren't recorded in Event History.
  An operation such as viewing the stack trace in the Temporal Cloud UI results in a Query.
- **Version marker recorded.**
  Occurs when a Workflow calls `get-version` or `patch`.
- **Side Effect recorded.**
  For a mutable [Side Effect](/workflows#side-effect), an Action occurs only when the value changes.
  (Be aware that some SDKs don't support Side Effects.)
- **NEW: Workflow Update.** [[Workflow Updates](/workflows#update)] is a primitive that combines a Signal and Query together for a single Action.

**Child Workflows**

- The parent Workflow spawning a Child Workflow results in one Action.
- Execution of the Child Workflow results in one Action.

**Activities**

- **Activity started or retried.**
  Occurs each time an Activity is started or retried.
- **Local Activity started.** Each [Local Activity](/activities#local-activity) associated with one Workflow Task will count as one Action. (Note: Each additional Workflow Task heartbeat after counts as an additional Action. Also, Local Activities retried following a Workflow Task heartbeat will count as one Action.
- **Activity Heartbeat recorded.**
  A Heartbeat call from Activity code counts as an Action only if it reaches the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).
  Temporal SDKs throttle [Activity Heartbeats](/activities#activity-heartbeat).
  The default throttle is 80% of the [Heartbeat Timeout](/activities#heartbeat-timeout).
  Heartbeats don't apply to Local Activities.

**Schedules**

[Schedules](/workflows#schedule) allows you to "schedule" a Workflow to start at a particular time. Each execution of a Schedule will accrue three actions:

- **Schedule Start**. Will account for two actions
- **Workflow started**. One action to start the target workflow

[Reach out to our team](https://pages.temporal.io/contact-us) to get more information or to help size your number of Actions.

## What are the Temporal Cloud storage prices? {#storage}

An execution of a particular Workflow could exist for a few seconds, a day, month, or even forever. Temporal collects the Event History during this time and dispatches work when necessary. In this context, a Workflow Execution has only two states, open (active) or closed.

Storage costs are measured in gigabyte-hours (GBh) and include charges for active Workflows, "running" storage, and the long-term, "retained" storage of Event Histories of closed Workflows. These are measured per Namespace.

Running storage is a measure of the amount of storage used to store active Workflows. When the execution of a Workflow ends, Temporal Cloud stores Event History for a defined Retention Period, for historical use. This is retained storage. Typical uses include compliance, debugging, workload refresh, and business analytics. Both kinds of storage have fixed costs.

| **Storage** | **Cost per GBh** |
| ----------- | ---------------- |
| Retained    | $0.00042         |
| Running     | $0.042           |

If you purchase Temporal Cloud credits (as outlined earlier), running storage costs are tiered and measured in gigabyte-hours.

| **Running storage** | **Cost per GBh** |
| ------------------- | ---------------- |
| Less than 10        | $0.042           |
| 10 to 39            | $0.031           |
| 40 to 119           | $0.023           |
| 120 to 499          | $0.018           |
| 500 to 1999         | $0.013           |
| 2000 or more        | $0.010           |

## What kind of support do I get with Temporal Cloud? {#support}

When signing up for Temporal Cloud, select a support plan—either Basic or Premium—and gain access to our support organization, which includes developer success engineers and solution architects. Our experts assist with a range of work streams, from Workflow design reviews to setting up observability, and from troubleshooting support to maintaining an agreed-upon set of SLAs.

The Temporal Developer Success team brings a deep knowledge of how Temporal works and how you can optimize your deployment. This team is comprised of engineers who know Temporal inside and out, and continue to contribute to its development.

They also investigate your Workflows to optimize their environments and possibly reduce costs associated with Actions and storage. They ensure your instance is performance tuned and help with other ongoing maintenance, like upgrades of the Temporal software and maintenance of the platform.

If an issue occurs, the team provides support through our [support portal](/cloud/support#support-ticket), [community forum](https://community.temporal.io/), and (with Premium support) a dedicated Slack channel. Temporal offers two levels of support defined by their availability and SLAs.

|                     | **Basic**                                                                                   | **Premium**                                                                            |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Response times      | P0: 1 business hour<br/>P1: 4 business hours<br/>P2: 1 business day<br/>P3: 2 business days | P0: 30 minutes<br/>P1: 1 business hour<br/>P2: 4 business hours<br/>P3: 1 business day |
| Pricing (per month) | Greater of $200 or 10% monthly usage                                                        | Greater of $2,000 or 10% monthly usage                                                 |

Business hours for Temporal Support are 0500–1700 Monday–Friday (Pacific Time).
For P0 issues, coverage is 24×7.

## What is the price for SSO and SAML? {#sso-and-saml}

We offer single sign-on (SSO) integration using SAML at a monthly fixed fee based on the number of users registered in Temporal Cloud:

| **Users** | **Cost per month** |
| --------- | ------------------ |
| 0 to 25   | $200               |
| 26 to 50  | $300               |
| 51+       | $500               |

## How to estimate costs {#pricing-estimates}

Temporal Cloud employs a consumption-based pricing model that's based on storage and execution, factors that vary from one Workflow to the next. You can estimate the cost of a specific Workflow by running it at a low volume and then using its storage and compute measurements to project your production-scale cost. Our team is happy to [help you estimate the cost](https://pages.temporal.io/contact-us) for your specific workloads.

## Pricing FAQ {#pricing-faq}

**What’s the minimum cost to run Temporal Cloud?**

The Temporal Cloud service is consumption based.
You pay only for what you need with no minimum.
Basic support has a minimum monthly fee of $200 per month.

**How do I pay for Temporal Cloud?**

Temporal sends a monthly bill based on your consumption.
You can pay this bill with a credit card, ACH, wire transfer, or Temporal Credits.

**Can I purchase Temporal Cloud through my Amazon, Azure, or Google Cloud Platform marketplace?**

You can purchase Temporal Cloud credits in the AWS Marketplace.
To learn more about our private offer on the AWS Marketplace, contact our team at sales@temporal.io.

**Do you offer any discounts for startups?**

Yes.
If you're part of a startup that has raised $30 million or less in funding and is not a current Temporal Cloud customer, you can apply for free Temporal Cloud credits.
To learn more and apply, see [Temporal Cloud for Startups](https://temporal.io/startup).

