---
id: support
title: Temporal Cloud services, support, and training
sidebar_label: Support
sidebar_position: 4
description: Temporal Cloud users can reach out for help through our community Slack channel, or file a support ticket through Zendesk. 
slug: /cloud/support
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- how-to
- introduction
- support
- temporal cloud
- training
tags:
- how-to
- introduction
- support
- temporal-cloud
- training
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

Temporal Cloud includes the support, services and training needed to onboard you successfully, design and deploy your application efficiently and scale.
Our team has extensive knowledge of the Temporal project, and a broad set of skills to help you succeed with any project.

Temporal Cloud provides support for break/fix issues and services to help with onboarding, design/code reviews for your application, and pre-production optimization.

:::note

The content of this page applies to Temporal Cloud customers only.

:::

## What are the services offered by Temporal Cloud? {#services}

We offer four services to Temporal Cloud customers. For access to any of these services, please [create a support ticket](/cloud/support) or contact your dedicated account manager.

- **Technical onboarding:** Every Temporal Cloud customer is offered a dedicated onboarding session led by a Developer Success Engineer.
  This session covers basic setup and Namespace planning and provides an overview of metrics and observability, an overview of development resources, and information you will need in preparation for your go-live.
- **Design and code reviews:** Our team works with you to review your Workflow design and code to avoid potential issues and optimize your workload to run on Temporal Cloud.
  These sessions also focus on the optimization of your Workflow Actions and reduce your costs; they also reveal likely trade offs.
- **Pre-production optimization:** We offer a dedicated session covering everything from identifying and troubleshooting the most common issues to observability setup, critical metrics to watch, and application design assistance.
- **Load tests:** Our Developer Success team walks through the basics of scaling Workers and metrics.
  We also watch as tests are performed to ensure you have appropriate capacity to complete those tests.

## What is the Temporal Cloud support guarantee? {#support}

Temporal endeavors to ensure you are successful with Temporal Cloud. We offer explicit guarantees for support.
Temporal Cloud customers get break/fix support with an agreed-upon set of SLAs for prioritized issues.
We use a ticketing system for entering, tracking, and closing these issues.

If an issue occurs, the team also provides support through a dedicated Slack channel, forums, and a knowledge base.
We offer two levels of support defined by their availability and SLAs in the following table.

|                    | Basic Support                                                                                  | Premium Support                                                                           |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Availability**   | P0: 24×7<br />P1–3: 0500–1700<br />Mon–Fri (GMT-9)                                             | P0: 24×7<br />P1–3: 0500–1700<br />Mon–Fri (GMT-9)                                        |
| **Response times** | P0: 1 business hour<br />P1: 4 business hours<br />P2: 1 business day<br />P3: 2 business days | P0: 30 minutes<br />P1: 1 business hour<br />P2: 4 business hours<br />P3: 1 business day |

For pricing details of these two levels of support, please visit our [pricing page](/cloud/pricing).

Temporal offers a ticketing system for Temporal Cloud customers.
We have an active [community Slack](https://temporalio.slack.com) and an active [community Discourse forum](https://community.temporal.io/) where you can post questions and ask for help.

## How to create a ticket for Temporal Support {#support-ticket}

:::info

This procedure applies only to Temporal Cloud customers whose contracts include paid support.
If you need assistance and don't have paid support, post your request in the [Temporal Community Forum](https://community.temporal.io) or the `#support-cloud` channel of the [Temporal workspace](https://t.mp/slack) in Slack.

:::

To request assistance from Temporal Support, create a ticket in Zendesk:

1. Go to [support.temporal.io](https://support.temporal.io/).
1. Use your Temporal Support credentials to sign in.
1. Choose **Create a ticket**.
1. On the **Submit a request** page, choose your issue.
   Unless your request involves one of the specific areas listed, choose **Submit a Ticket**.
1. In the form, enter the details of your request.
   **Subject** and **Description** are required.
1. If you specify **Priority** (available only on the default form), follow these guidelines:
   - Select **Normal** for most issues.
   - Select **High** only for issues to which your service-level agreement (SLA) applies.
     If you're not sure, select **Normal**.
   - Select **Page** only if you are experiencing a complete service outage and urgently need contact with an on-call support person.
1. At the bottom of the form, choose **Submit**.

## What type of developer resources exist? {#developer-resources}

Temporal offers developer resources and a variety of hands-on tutorials to get you started and learn more advanced Temporal concepts.

- [Get started with Temporal](https://learn.temporal.io/getting_started): Start your journey with Temporal with this guide that helps you set up your development environment, run an existing Temporal app, and then build your first app from scratch using our SDKs.
- [Courses](https://learn.temporal.io/courses): Learn and apply Temporal concepts in our free, self-paced, hands-on courses.
- [Tutorials](https://learn.temporal.io/tutorials): Apply Temporal concepts to build real-world applications with these hands-on tutorials.
- [Example applications](https://learn.temporal.io/examples): Explore example applications that use Temporal and gain a clearer understanding of how Temporal concepts work in a complex application.

