---
id: how-to-develop-an-activity-definition-in-python
title: How to develop an Activity Definition in Python
sidebar_label: Activity Definition
description: You can develop an Activity Definition by using the `@activity.defn` decorator.
tags:
- python sdk
- code sample
- activity definition
---

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY.
THIS FILE IS GENERATED from https://github.com/temporalio/documentation-samples-python/blob/main/your_app/your_activities_dacx.py. -->

You can develop an Activity Definition by using the `@activity.defn` decorator.
Register the function as an Activity with a custom name through a decorator argument, for example `@activity.defn(name="your_activity")`.

:::note

The Temporal Python SDK supports multiple ways of implementing an Activity:

- Asynchronously using [`asyncio`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html)
- Synchronously multithreaded using [`concurrent.futures.ThreadPoolExecutor`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#threadpoolexecutor)
- Synchronously multiprocess using [`concurrent.futures.ProcessPoolExecutor`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#processpoolexecutor) and [`multiprocessing.managers.SyncManager`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html#multiprocessing.managers.SyncManager)

Blocking the async event loop in Python would turn your asynchronous program into a synchronous program that executes serially, defeating the entire purpose of using `asyncio`.
This can also lead to potential deadlock, and unpredictable behavior that causes tasks to be unable to execute.
Debugging these issues can be difficult and time consuming, as locating the source of the blocking call might not always be immediately obvious.

Due to this, consider not make blocking calls from within an asynchronous Activity, or use an async safe library to perform
these actions.
If you must use a blocking library, consider using a synchronous Activity instead.

:::

:::copycode Sample application code

The following code sample comes from a working and tested sample application.
The code sample might be abridged within the guide to highlight key aspects.
Visit the source repository to [view the source code](https://github.com/temporalio/documentation-samples-python/blob/main/your_app/your_activities_dacx.py) in the context of the rest of the application code.

:::

```python
from temporalio import activity
# ...
# ...
@activity.defn(name="your_activity")
async def your_activity(input: YourParams) -> str:
    return f"{input.greeting}, {input.name}!"
```
