---
id: backgroundcheck-boilerplate-workflow-details
title: Boilerplate Workflow code
sidebar_label: Workflow code
description: In the Temporal Go SDK programming model, an Activity Definition is an exportable function or a `struct` method.
tags:
- go sdk
- workflow
- developer guide
---

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY.
THIS FILE IS GENERATED from https://github.com/temporalio/documentation-samples-go/blob/edu-1036.sc.00/dev-guide/chapters/setup/workflows/backgroundcheck.go. -->

The first parameter of a Go-based Workflow Definition must be of the [`workflow.Context`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#Context) type.
It is used by the Temporal Go SDK to pass around Workflow Execution context, and virtually all the Go SDK APIs that are callable from the Workflow require it.
It is acquired from the [`go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow) package.

The `workflow.Context` entity operates similarly to the standard `context.Context` entity provided by Go.
The only difference between `workflow.Context` and `context.Context` is that the `Done()` function, provided by `workflow.Context`, returns `workflow.Channel` instead of the standard Go `chan`.

Additional parameters can be passed to the Workflow when it is invoked.
A Workflow Definition may support multiple custom parameters, or none.
All Workflow Definition parameters must be serializable and can't be channels, functions, variadic, or unsafe pointers.

To spawn an [Activity Execution](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution), call [`ExecuteActivity()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/workflow#ExecuteActivity) inside your Workflow Definition.
The API is available from the [`go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/workflow) package.
The `ExecuteActivity()` API call requires an instance of `workflow.Context`, the Activity function name, and any variables to be passed to the Activity Execution.

A Go-based Workflow Definition can return either just an `error` or a `customValue, error` combination.
We get into the best practices around Workflow params and returns in the one of the next sections.

In regards to code organization, we recommend organizing Workflow code together with other Workflow code.
For example, in a small project like this, it is still a best practice to have a dedicated file for each Workflow.
