---
id: custom-data-encoding
title: Custom data encoding - Go SDK feature guide
sidebar_label: Custom data encoding
sidebar_position: 5
description: Learn how to apply custom data encoding using the Go SDK.
slug: /dev-guide/go/features/custom-data-encoding
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- data converter
- developer-guide-doc-type
- go sdk
- how-to-doc-type
- payload conversion
- payload converter
tags:
- data-converter
- developer-guide-doc-type
- go-sdk
- how-to-doc-type
- payload-conversion
- payload-converter
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

Temporal SDKs provide a [Payload Converter](/dataconversion#payload-converter) that can be customized to convert a custom data type to [Payload](/dataconversion#payload) and back.

Implementing custom Payload conversion is optional.
It is needed only if the [default Data Converter](/dataconversion#default-data-converter) does not support your custom values.

To support custom Payload conversion, create a [custom Payload Converter](/dataconversion#custom-payload-conversion) and configure the Data Converter to use it in your Client options.

The order in which your encoding Payload Converters are applied depend on the order given to the Data Converter.
You can set multiple encoding Payload Converters to run your conversions.
When the Data Converter receives a value for conversion, it passes through each Payload Converter in sequence until the converter that handles the data type does the conversion.

Use [CompositeDataConverter](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#CompositeDataConverter) to apply custom, type-specific Payload Converters in a specified order.

`NewCompositeDataConverter` creates a new instance of `CompositeDataConverter` from an ordered list of type-specific Payload Converters.
The following type-specific Payload Converters are available in the Go SDK, listed in the order that they are applied by the default Data Converter:

- [NewNilPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NilPayloadConverter.ToString)
- [NewByteSlicePayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ByteSlicePayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoJSONPayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoPayloadConverter)
- [NewJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#JSONPayloadConverter)

The order in which the Payload Converters are applied is important because during serialization the Data Converter tries the Payload Converters in that specific order until a Payload Converter returns a non-nil Payload.

A custom [`PayloadConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#PayloadConverter) must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from a Payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to a Payload.

To set your custom Payload Converter, use [`NewCompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NewCompositeDataConverter) and set it as the Data Converter in the Client options.

- To replace the default Data Converter with a custom `NewCompositeDataConverter`, use the following.

  ```go
  dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(YourCustomPayloadConverter())
  ```

- To add your custom type conversion to the default Data Converter, use the following to keep the defaults but set yours just before the default JSON fall through.

  ```go
  dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(
    converter.NewNilPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewByteSlicePayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewProtoPayloadConverter(),
    YourCustomPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewJSONPayloadConverter(),
  )
  ```
