---
id: index
title: Temporal Go SDK features
sidebar_label: Feature guides
sidebar_position: 5
description: Discover available Temporal Go SDK APIs.
slug: /dev-guide/go/features
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- activity
- activity execution
- activity options
- activity-execution
- api
- async
- child workflows
- continue-as-new
- data converter
- developer-guide-doc-type
- error handling
- events
- feature-request
- go sdk
- go-sdk
- goroutines
- how-to-doc-type
- introduction-doc-type
- mutability
- namespace
- namespace management
- namespace registration
- payload conversion
- payload converter
- retention-policy
- retries
- retry and timeout policies
- retry-and-timeout-policies
- selectors
- side effects
- timeouts
- workflow execution
- workflow options
- workflow-execution
tags:
- activity
- activity-execution
- activity-options
- activity-execution
- api
- async
- child-workflows
- continue-as-new
- data-converter
- developer-guide-doc-type
- error-handling
- events
- feature-request
- go-sdk
- go-sdk
- goroutines
- how-to-doc-type
- introduction-doc-type
- mutability
- namespace
- namespace-management
- namespace-registration
- payload-conversion
- payload-converter
- retention-policy
- retries
- retry-and-timeout-policies
- retry-and-timeout-policies
- selectors
- side-effects
- timeouts
- workflow-execution
- workflow-options
- workflow-execution
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

This features reference provides basic implementation guidance on how to use many of the development features available to Temporal Applications through the Temporal Go SDK.

- Core application definitions
- Cancellation
- Signals

The Features section of the Temporal Developer's guide provides basic implementation guidance on how to use many of the development features available to Workflows and Activities in the Temporal Platform.

In this section you can find the following:

- [How to develop Signals](#signals)
- [How to develop Queries](#queries)
- [How to start a Child Workflow Execution](#child-workflows)
- [How to start a Temporal Cron Job](#temporal-cron-jobs)
- [How to use Continue-As-New](#continue-as-new)
- [How to set Workflow timeouts & retries](#workflow-timeouts)
- [How to set Activity timeouts & retries](#activity-timeouts)
- [How to Heartbeat an Activity](#activity-heartbeats)
- [How to Asynchronously complete an Activity](#asynchronous-activity-completion)
- [How to register Namespaces](#namespaces)
- [How to use custom payload conversion](#custom-payload-conversion)
- [How to develop with Updates](/dev-guide/go/features/updates#)

## Workflow timeouts {#workflow-timeouts}

Each Workflow timeout controls the maximum duration of a different aspect of a Workflow Execution.

Workflow timeouts are set when [starting the Workflow Execution](#workflow-timeouts).

- **[Workflow Execution Timeout](/workflows#workflow-execution-timeout)** - restricts the maximum amount of time that a single Workflow Execution can be executed.
- **[Workflow Run Timeout](/workflows#workflow-run-timeout):** restricts the maximum amount of time that a single Workflow Run can last.
- **[Workflow Task Timeout](/workflows#workflow-task-timeout):** restricts the maximum amount of time that a Worker can execute a Workflow Task.

Create an instance of [`StartWorkflowOptions`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#StartWorkflowOptions) from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/client` package, set a timeout, and pass the instance to the `ExecuteWorkflow` call.

Available timeouts are:

- `WorkflowExecutionTimeout`
- `WorkflowRunTimeout`
- `WorkflowTaskTimeout`

```go
workflowOptions := client.StartWorkflowOptions{
  // ...
  // Set Workflow Timeout duration
  WorkflowExecutionTimeout: time.Hours * 24 * 365 * 10,
  // WorkflowRunTimeout: time.Hours * 24 * 365 * 10,
  // WorkflowTaskTimeout: time.Second * 10,
  // ...
}
workflowRun, err := c.ExecuteWorkflow(context.Background(), workflowOptions, YourWorkflowDefinition)
if err != nil {
  // ...
}
```

### Workflow retries {#workflow-retries}

A Retry Policy can work in cooperation with the timeouts to provide fine controls to optimize the execution experience.

Use a [Retry Policy](/retry-policies#) to retry a Workflow Execution in the event of a failure.

Workflow Executions do not retry by default, and Retry Policies should be used with Workflow Executions only in certain situations.

Create an instance of a [`RetryPolicy`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#RetryPolicy) from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal` package and provide it as the value to the `RetryPolicy` field of the instance of `StartWorkflowOptions`.

- Type: [`RetryPolicy`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#RetryPolicy)
- Default: None

```go
retrypolicy := &temporal.RetryPolicy{
  InitialInterval:    time.Second,
  BackoffCoefficient: 2.0,
  MaximumInterval:    time.Second * 100,
}
workflowOptions := client.StartWorkflowOptions{
  RetryPolicy: retrypolicy,
  // ...
}
workflowRun, err := temporalClient.ExecuteWorkflow(context.Background(), workflowOptions, YourWorkflowDefinition)
if err != nil {
  // ...
}
```

## How to set Activity timeouts {#activity-timeouts}

Each Activity timeout controls the maximum duration of a different aspect of an Activity Execution.

The following timeouts are available in the Activity Options.

- **[Schedule-To-Close Timeout](/activities#schedule-to-close-timeout):** is the maximum amount of time allowed for the overall [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution).
- **[Start-To-Close Timeout](/activities#start-to-close-timeout):** is the maximum time allowed for a single [Activity Task Execution](/workers#activity-task-execution).
- **[Schedule-To-Start Timeout](/activities#schedule-to-start-timeout):** is the maximum amount of time that is allowed from when an [Activity Task](/workers#activity-task) is scheduled to when a [Worker](/workers#worker) starts that Activity Task.

An Activity Execution must have either the Start-To-Close or the Schedule-To-Close Timeout set.

To set an Activity Timeout in Go, create an instance of `ActivityOptions` from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow` package, set the Activity Timeout field, and then use the `WithActivityOptions()` API to apply the options to the instance of `workflow.Context`.

Available timeouts are:

- `StartToCloseTimeout`
- `ScheduleToClose`
- `ScheduleToStartTimeout`

```go
activityoptions := workflow.ActivityOptions{
  // Set Activity Timeout duration
  ScheduleToCloseTimeout: 10 * time.Second,
  // StartToCloseTimeout: 10 * time.Second,
  // ScheduleToStartTimeout: 10 * time.Second,
}
ctx = workflow.WithActivityOptions(ctx, activityoptions)
var yourActivityResult YourActivityResult
err = workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, YourActivityDefinition, yourActivityParam).Get(ctx, &yourActivityResult)
if err != nil {
  // ...
}
```

### How to set an Activity Retry Policy {#activity-retries}

A Retry Policy works in cooperation with the timeouts to provide fine controls to optimize the execution experience.

Activity Executions are automatically associated with a default [Retry Policy](/retry-policies#) if a custom one is not provided.

To set a [RetryPolicy](/retry-policies#), create an instance of `ActivityOptions` from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow` package, set the `RetryPolicy` field, and then use the `WithActivityOptions()` API to apply the options to the instance of `workflow.Context`.

- Type: [`RetryPolicy`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#RetryPolicy)
- Default:

```go
retrypolicy := &temporal.RetryPolicy{
  InitialInterval:    time.Second,
  BackoffCoefficient: 2.0,
  MaximumInterval:    time.Second * 100, // 100 * InitialInterval
  MaximumAttempts: 0, // Unlimited
  NonRetryableErrorTypes: []string, // empty
}
```

Providing a Retry Policy here is a customization, and overwrites individual Field defaults.

```go
retrypolicy := &temporal.RetryPolicy{
  InitialInterval:    time.Second,
  BackoffCoefficient: 2.0,
  MaximumInterval:    time.Second * 100,
}

activityoptions := workflow.ActivityOptions{
  RetryPolicy: retrypolicy,
}
ctx = workflow.WithActivityOptions(ctx, activityoptions)
var yourActivityResult YourActivityResult
err = workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, YourActivityDefinition, yourActivityParam).Get(ctx, &yourActivityResult)
if err != nil {
  // ...
}
```

## How to asynchronously complete an Activity {#asynchronous-activity-completion}

[Asynchronous Activity Completion](/activities#asynchronous-activity-completion) enables the Activity Function to return without the Activity Execution completing.

There are three steps to follow:

1. The Activity provides the external system with identifying information needed to complete the Activity Execution.
   Identifying information can be a [Task Token](/activities#task-token), or a combination of Namespace, Workflow Id, and Activity Id.
2. The Activity Function completes in a way that identifies it as waiting to be completed by an external system.
3. The Temporal Client is used to Heartbeat and complete the Activity.

4. Provide the external system with a Task Token to complete the Activity Execution.
   To do this, use the `GetInfo()` API from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/activity` package.

```go
// Retrieve the Activity information needed to asynchronously complete the Activity.
activityInfo := activity.GetInfo(ctx)
taskToken := activityInfo.TaskToken
// Send the taskToken to the external service that will complete the Activity.
```

2. Return an `activity.ErrResultPending` error to indicate that the Activity is completing asynchronously.

```go
return "", activity.ErrResultPending
```

3. Use the Temporal Client to complete the Activity using the Task Token.

```go
// Instantiate a Temporal service client.
// The same client can be used to complete or fail any number of Activities.
// The client is a heavyweight object that should be created once per process.
temporalClient, err := client.Dial(client.Options{})

// Complete the Activity.
temporalClient.CompleteActivity(context.Background(), taskToken, result, nil)
```

The following are the parameters of the `CompleteActivity` function:

- `taskToken`: The value of the binary `TaskToken` field of the `ActivityInfo` struct retrieved inside
  the Activity.
- `result`: The return value to record for the Activity. The type of this value must match the type
  of the return value declared by the Activity function.
- `err`: The error code to return if the Activity terminates with an error.

If `error` is not null, the value of the `result` field is ignored.

To fail the Activity, you would do the following:

```go
// Fail the Activity.
client.CompleteActivity(context.Background(), taskToken, nil, err)
```

## How to start a Child Workflow Execution {#child-workflows}

A [Child Workflow Execution](/workflows#child-workflow) is a Workflow Execution that is scheduled from within another Workflow using a Child Workflow API.

When using a Child Workflow API, Child Workflow related Events ([StartChildWorkflowExecutionInitiated](/references/events#startchildworkflowexecutioninitiated), [ChildWorkflowExecutionStarted](/references/events#childworkflowexecutionstarted), [ChildWorkflowExecutionCompleted](/references/events#childworkflowexecutioncompleted), etc...) are logged in the Workflow Execution Event History.

Always block progress until the [ChildWorkflowExecutionStarted](/references/events#childworkflowexecutionstarted) Event is logged to the Event History to ensure the Child Workflow Execution has started.
After that, Child Workflow Executions may be abandoned using the default _Abandon_ [Parent Close Policy](/workflows#parent-close-policy) set in the Child Workflow Options.

To be sure that the Child Workflow Execution has started, first call the Child Workflow Execution method on the instance of Child Workflow future, which returns a different future.

Then get the value of an object that acts as a proxy for a result that is initially unknown, which is what waits until the Child Workflow Execution has spawned.

To spawn a [Child Workflow Execution](/workflows#child-workflow) in Go, use the [`ExecuteChildWorkflow`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#ExecuteChildWorkflow) API, which is available from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow` package.

The `ExecuteChildWorkflow` call requires an instance of [`workflow.Context`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#Context), with an instance of [`workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#ChildWorkflowOptions) applied to it, the Workflow Type, and any parameters that should be passed to the Child Workflow Execution.

`workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions` contain the same fields as `client.StartWorkflowOptions`.
Workflow Option fields automatically inherit their values from the Parent Workflow Options if they are not explicitly set.
If a custom `WorkflowID` is not set, one is generated when the Child Workflow Execution is spawned.
Use the [`WithChildOptions`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#WithChildOptions) API to apply Child Workflow Options to the instance of `workflow.Context`.

The `ExecuteChildWorkflow` call returns an instance of a [`ChildWorkflowFuture`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#ChildWorkflowFuture).

Call the `.Get()` method on the instance of `ChildWorkflowFuture` to wait for the result.

```go
func YourWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ParentParams) (ParentResp, error) {

  childWorkflowOptions := workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions{}
  ctx = workflow.WithChildOptions(ctx, childWorkflowOptions)

  var result ChildResp
  err := workflow.ExecuteChildWorkflow(ctx, YourOtherWorkflowDefinition, ChildParams{}).Get(ctx, &result)
  if err != nil {
    // ...
  }
  // ...
  return resp, nil
}

func YourOtherWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ChildParams) (ChildResp, error) {
  // ...
  return resp, nil
}
```

To asynchronously spawn a Child Workflow Execution, the Child Workflow must have an "Abandon" Parent Close Policy set in the Child Workflow Options.
Additionally, the Parent Workflow Execution must wait for the `ChildWorkflowExecutionStarted` Event to appear in its Event History before it completes.

If the Parent makes the `ExecuteChildWorkflow` call and then immediately completes, the Child Workflow Execution does not spawn.

To be sure that the Child Workflow Execution has started, first call the `GetChildWorkflowExecution` method on the instance of the `ChildWorkflowFuture`, which will return a different Future.
Then call the `Get()` method on that Future, which is what will wait until the Child Workflow Execution has spawned.

```go
import (
  // ...
  "go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1"
)

func YourWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ParentParams) (ParentResp, error) {

  childWorkflowOptions := workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions{
    ParentClosePolicy: enums.PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_ABANDON,
  }
  ctx = workflow.WithChildOptions(ctx, childWorkflowOptions)

  childWorkflowFuture := workflow.ExecuteChildWorkflow(ctx, YourOtherWorkflowDefinition, ChildParams{})
  // Wait for the Child Workflow Execution to spawn
  var childWE workflow.Execution
  if err := childWorkflowFuture.GetChildWorkflowExecution().Get(ctx, &childWE); err != nil {
     return err
  }
  // ...
  return resp, nil
}

func YourOtherWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ChildParams) (ChildResp, error) {
  // ...
  return resp, nil
}
```

#### How to set a Parent Close Policy {#parent-close-policy}

A [Parent Close Policy](/workflows#parent-close-policy) determines what happens to a Child Workflow Execution if its Parent changes to a Closed status (Completed, Failed, or Timed Out).

The default Parent Close Policy option is set to terminate the Child Workflow Execution.

In Go, a Parent Close Policy is set on the `ParentClosePolicy` field of an instance of [`workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#ChildWorkflowOptions).
The possible values can be obtained from the [`go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1#ParentClosePolicy) package.

- `PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_ABANDON`
- `PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_TERMINATE`
- `PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_REQUEST_CANCEL`

The Child Workflow Options are then applied to the instance of `workflow.Context` by using the `WithChildOptions` API, which is then passed to the `ExecuteChildWorkflow()` call.

- Type: [`ParentClosePolicy`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1#ParentClosePolicy)
- Default: `PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_TERMINATE`

```go
import (
  // ...
  "go.temporal.io/api/enums/v1"
)

func YourWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ParentParams) (ParentResp, error) {
  // ...
  childWorkflowOptions := workflow.ChildWorkflowOptions{
    // ...
    ParentClosePolicy: enums.PARENT_CLOSE_POLICY_ABANDON,
  }
  ctx = workflow.WithChildOptions(ctx, childWorkflowOptions)
  childWorkflowFuture := workflow.ExecuteChildWorkflow(ctx, YourOtherWorkflowDefinition, ChildParams{})
  // ...
}

func YourOtherWorkflowDefinition(ctx workflow.Context, params ChildParams) (ChildResp, error) {
  // ...
  return resp, nil
}
```

## How to Continue-As-New {#continue-as-new}

[Continue-As-New](/workflows#continue-as-new) enables a Workflow Execution to close successfully and create a new Workflow Execution in a single atomic operation if the number of Events in the Event History is becoming too large.
The Workflow Execution spawned from the use of Continue-As-New has the same Workflow Id, a new Run Id, and a fresh Event History and is passed all the appropriate parameters.

To cause a Workflow Execution to [Continue-As-New](/workflows#continue-as-new), the Workflow API should return the result of the [`NewContinueAsNewError()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#NewContinueAsNewError) function available from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow` package.

```go
func SimpleWorkflow(ctx workflow.Context, value string) error {
    ...
    return workflow.NewContinueAsNewError(ctx, SimpleWorkflow, value)
}
```

To check whether a Workflow Execution was spawned as a result of Continue-As-New, you can check if `workflow.GetInfo(ctx).ContinuedExecutionRunID` is not empty (i.e. `""`).

**Notes**

- To prevent Signal loss, be sure to perform an asynchronous drain on the Signal channel.
  Failure to do so can result in buffered Signals being ignored and lost.
- Make sure that the previous Workflow and the Continue-As-New Workflow are referenced by the same alias.
  Failure to do so can cause the Workflow to Continue-As-New on an entirely different Workflow.

## Side Effects {#side-effects}

Side Effects are used to execute non-deterministic code, such as generating a UUID or a random number, without compromising deterministic in the Workflow. This is done by storing the non-deterministic results of the Side Effect into the Workflow [Event History](/workflows/#event-history).

A Side Effect does not re-execute during a Replay. Instead, it returns the recorded result from the Workflow Execution Event History.

Side Effects should not fail. An exception that is thrown from the Side Effect causes failure and retry of the current Workflow Task.

An Activity or a Local Activity may also be used instead of a Side effect, as its result is also persisted in Workflow Execution History.

:::note

You shouldn’t modify the Workflow state inside a Side Effect function, because it is not reexecuted during Replay. Side Effect function should be used to return a value.

:::

Use the [`SideEffect`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#SideEffect) function from the `go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow` package to execute a [Side Effect](/workflows#side-effect) directly in your Workflow.

Pass it an instance of `context.Context` and the function to execute.

The `SideEffect` API returns a Future, an instance of [`converter.EncodedValue`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#SideEffect).

Use the `Get` method on the Future to retrieve the result of the Side Effect.

**Correct implementation**

The following example demonstrates the correct way to use `SideEffect`:

```go
encodedRandom := workflow.SideEffect(ctx, func(ctx workflow.Context) interface{} {
 return rand.Intn(100)
})

var random int
encodedRandom.Get(&random)
// ...
}
```

**Incorrect implementation**

The following example demonstrates how NOT to use `SideEffect`:

```go
// Warning: This is an incorrect example.
// This code is non-deterministic.
var random int
workflow.SideEffect(func(ctx workflow.Context) interface{} {
      random = rand.Intn(100)
      return nil
})
// random will always be 0 in replay, so this code is non-deterministic.
```

On replay the provided function is not executed, the random number will always be 0, and the Workflow Execution could take a different path, breaking determinism.

### Mutable Side Effects {#mutable-side-effects}

Mutable Side Effects execute the provided function once, and then it looks up the History of the value with the given Workflow ID.

- If there is no existing value, then it records the function result as a value with the given Workflow Id on the History.
- If there is an existing value, then it compares whether the existing value from the History has changed from the new function results, by calling the equals function.
  - If the values are equal, then it returns the value without recording a new Marker Event
  - If the values aren't equal, then it records the new value with the same ID on the History.

:::note

During a Workflow Execution, every new Side Effect call results in a new Marker recorded on the Workflow History; whereas Mutable Side Effects only records a new Marker on the Workflow History if the value for the Side Effect ID changes or is set the first time.

During a Replay, Mutable Side Effects will not execute the function again. Instead, it returns the exact same value that was returned during the Workflow Execution.

:::

To use [`MutableSideEffect()`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#MutableSideEffect) in Go, provide a unique name within the scope of the workflow.

```go
if err := workflow.MutableSideEffect(ctx, "configureNumber", get, eq).Get(&number); err != nil {
    panic("can't decode number:" + err.Error())
  }
```

## How to create and manage Namespaces {#namespaces}

You can create, update, deprecate or delete your [Namespaces](/namespaces#) using either tctl or SDK APIs.

Use Namespaces to isolate your Workflow Executions according to your needs.
For example, you can use Namespaces to match the development lifecycle by having separate `dev` and `prod` Namespaces.
You could also use them to ensure Workflow Executions between different teams never communicate - such as ensuring that the `teamA` Namespace never impacts the `teamB` Namespace.

On Temporal Cloud, use the [Temporal Cloud UI](/cloud/namespaces#create-a-namespace) to create and manage a Namespace from the UI, or [tcld commands](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/tcld/namespace/) to manage Namespaces from the command-line interface.

On self-hosted Temporal Cluster, you can register and manage your Namespaces using tctl (recommended) or programmatically using APIs. Note that these APIs and tctl commands will not work with Temporal Cloud.

Use a custom [Authorizer](/self-hosted-guide/security#authorizer-plugin) on your Frontend Service in the Temporal Cluster to set restrictions on who can create, update, or deprecate Namespaces.

You must register a Namespace with the Temporal Cluster before setting it in the Temporal Client.

### How to register Namespaces {#register-namespace}

Registering a Namespace creates a Namespace on the Temporal Cluster or Temporal Cloud.

On Temporal Cloud, use the [Temporal Cloud UI](/cloud/namespaces#create-a-namespace) or [tcld commands](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/tcld/namespace/) to create Namespaces.

On self-hosted Temporal Cluster, you can register your Namespaces using tctl (recommended) or programmatically using APIs. Note that these APIs and tctl commands will not work with Temporal Cloud.

Use a custom [Authorizer](/self-hosted-guide/security#authorizer-plugin) on your Frontend Service in the Temporal Cluster to set restrictions on who can create, update, or deprecate Namespaces.

Use [`Register` API](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#NamespaceClient) with the `NamespaceClient` interface to register a [Namespace](/namespaces#) and set the [Retention Period](/clusters#retention-period) for the Workflow Execution Event History for the Namespace.

You can also [register Namespaces using the tctl command-line tool](/tctl-v1/namespace#register).

```go
client, err := client.NewNamespaceClient(client.Options{HostPort: ts.config.ServiceAddr})
        //...
    err = client.Register(ctx, &workflowservice.RegisterNamespaceRequest{
        Namespace: your-namespace-name,
        WorkflowExecutionRetentionPeriod: &retention,
    })
```

The Retention Period setting using `WorkflowExecutionRetentionPeriod` is mandatory.
The minimum value you can set for this period is 1 day.

Once registered, set Namespace using `Dial` in a Workflow Client to run your Workflow Executions within that Namespace.
See [how to set Namespace in a Client in Go](/dev-guide/go/features/core-app#connect-to-temporal-cloud) for details.

Note that Namespace registration using this API takes up to 10 seconds to complete.
Ensure that you wait for this registration to complete before starting the Workflow Execution against the Namespace.

To update your Namespace, use the [`Update` API](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#NamespaceClient) with the `NamespaceClient`.

To update your Namespace using tctl, use the [tctl namespace update](/tctl-v1/namespace#update) command.

### How to manage Namespaces {#manage-namespaces}

You can get details for your Namespaces, update Namespace configuration, and deprecate or delete your Namespaces.

On Temporal Cloud, use the [Temporal Cloud UI](/cloud/namespaces#create-a-namespace) or [tcld commands](https://docs.temporal.io/cloud/tcld/namespace/) to manage Namespaces.

On self-hosted Temporal Cluster, you can manage your registered Namespaces using tctl (recommended) or programmatically using APIs. Note that these APIs and tctl commands will not work with Temporal Cloud.

Use a custom [Authorizer](/self-hosted-guide/security#authorizer-plugin) on your Frontend Service in the Temporal Cluster to set restrictions on who can create, update, or deprecate Namespaces.

You must register a Namespace with the Temporal Cluster before setting it in the Temporal Client.

On Temporal Cloud, use the [Temporal Cloud UI](/cloud/namespaces#) or [tcld commands](/cloud/tcld/namespace/) to manage Namespaces.

On self-hosted Temporal Cluster, you can manage your registered Namespaces using tctl (recommended) or programmatically using APIs. Note that these APIs and tctl commands will not work with Temporal Cloud.

- Update information and configuration for a registered Namespace on your Temporal Cluster:

  - With tctl: [`tctl namespace update`](/tctl-v1/namespace#update)
    Example
  - Use the [`UpdateNamespace` API](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#NamespaceClient) to update configuration on a Namespace.
    Example

    ```go
    //...
      err = client.Update(context.Background(), &workflowservice.UpdateNamespaceRequest{
      Namespace:         "your-namespace-name",
      UpdateInfo:        &namespace.UpdateNamespaceInfo{ //updates info for the namespace "your-namespace-name"
          Description:   "updated namespace description",
          OwnerEmail:    "newowner@mail.com",
          //Data:        nil,
          //State:       0,
      },
      /*other details that you can update:
      Config:            &namespace.NamespaceConfig{ //updates the configuration of the namespace with the following options
          //WorkflowExecutionRetentionTtl: nil,
          //BadBinaries:                   nil,
          //HistoryArchivalState:          0,
          //HistoryArchivalUri:            "",
          //VisibilityArchivalState:       0,
          //VisibilityArchivalUri:         "",
      },
      ReplicationConfig: &replication.NamespaceReplicationConfig{ //updates the replication configuration for the namespace
          //ActiveClusterName: "",
          //Clusters:          nil,
          //State:             0,
      },
      SecurityToken:     "",
      DeleteBadBinary:   "",
      PromoteNamespace:  false,
      })*/
    //...
    ```

- Get details for a registered Namespace on your Temporal Cluster:

  - With tctl: [`tctl namespace describe`](/tctl-v1/namespace#describe)
  - Use the [`DescribeNamespace` API](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#NamespaceClient) to return information and configuration details for a registered Namespace.
    Example

    ```go
    //...
      client, err := client.NewNamespaceClient(client.Options{})
      //...
      client.Describe(context.Background(), "default")
    //...
    ```

- Get details for all registered Namespaces on your Temporal Cluster:

  - With tctl: [`tctl namespace list`](/tctl-v1/namespace#list)
  - Use the [`ListNamespace` API](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/f0350f8032ad2f0c60c539b3b61ea37f412f1cf7/temporal/api/operatorservice/v1/service.proto) to return information and configuration details for all registered Namespaces on your Temporal Cluster.
    Example

  ```go
  //...
      namespace.Handler.ListNamespaces(context.Context(), &workflowservice.ListNamespacesRequest{ //lists 1 page (1-100) of namespaces on the active cluster. You can set a large PageSize or loop until NextPageToken is nil
          //PageSize:        0,
          //NextPageToken:   nil,
          //NamespaceFilter: nil,
          })
  //...
  ```

- Delete a Namespace: The [`DeleteNamespace` API](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/f0350f8032ad2f0c60c539b3b61ea37f412f1cf7/temporal/api/operatorservice/v1/service.proto) deletes a Namespace. Deleting a Namespace deletes all running and completed Workflow Executions on the Namespace, and removes them from the persistence store and the visibility store.
  Example:

  ```go
  //...
  client.OperatorService().DeleteNamespace(ctx, &operatorservice.DeleteNamespaceRequest{...
  //...
  ```

## How to use custom payload conversion {#custom-payload-conversion}

Temporal SDKs provide a [Payload Converter](/dataconversion#payload-converter) that can be customized to convert a custom data type to [Payload](/dataconversion#payload) and back.

Implementing custom Payload conversion is optional.
It is needed only if the [default Data Converter](/dataconversion#default-data-converter) does not support your custom values.

To support custom Payload conversion, create a [custom Payload Converter](/dataconversion#custom-payload-conversion) and configure the Data Converter to use it in your Client options.

The order in which your encoding Payload Converters are applied depend on the order given to the Data Converter.
You can set multiple encoding Payload Converters to run your conversions.
When the Data Converter receives a value for conversion, it passes through each Payload Converter in sequence until the converter that handles the data type does the conversion.

Use [CompositeDataConverter](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#CompositeDataConverter) to apply custom, type-specific Payload Converters in a specified order.

`NewCompositeDataConverter` creates a new instance of `CompositeDataConverter` from an ordered list of type-specific Payload Converters.
The following type-specific Payload Converters are available in the Go SDK, listed in the order that they are applied by the default Data Converter:

- [NewNilPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NilPayloadConverter.ToString)
- [NewByteSlicePayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ByteSlicePayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoJSONPayloadConverter)
- [NewProtoPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#ProtoPayloadConverter)
- [NewJSONPayloadConverter()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#JSONPayloadConverter)

The order in which the Payload Converters are applied is important because during serialization the Data Converter tries the Payload Converters in that specific order until a Payload Converter returns a non-nil Payload.

A custom [`PayloadConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#PayloadConverter) must implement functions `FromPayload` (for a single value) or `FromPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert to values from a Payload, and `ToPayload` (for a single value) or `ToPayloads` (for a list of values) to convert values to a Payload.

To set your custom Payload Converter, use [`NewCompositeDataConverter`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/converter#NewCompositeDataConverter) and set it as the Data Converter in the Client options.

- To replace the default Data Converter with a custom `NewCompositeDataConverter`, use the following.

  ```go
  dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(YourCustomPayloadConverter())
  ```

- To add your custom type conversion to the default Data Converter, use the following to keep the defaults but set yours just before the default JSON fall through.

  ```go
  dataConverter := converter.NewCompositeDataConverter(
    converter.NewNilPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewByteSlicePayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewProtoJSONPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewProtoPayloadConverter(),
    YourCustomPayloadConverter(),
    converter.NewJSONPayloadConverter(),
  )
  ```

## Error Handling in Go {#error-handling-in-go}

An Activity, or a Child Workflow, might fail, and you could handle errors differently based on the different
error cases.

If the Activity returns an error as `errors.New()` or `fmt.Errorf()`, that error is converted into `*temporal.ApplicationError`.

If the Activity returns an error as `temporal.NewNonRetryableApplicationError("error message", details)`, that error is returned as `*temporal.ApplicationError`.

There are other types of errors such as `*temporal.TimeoutError`, `*temporal.CanceledError` and
`*temporal.PanicError`.
Following is an example of what your error code might look like:

Here's an example of handling Activity errors within Workflow code that differentiates between different error types.

```go
err := workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, YourActivity, ...).Get(ctx, nil)
if err != nil {
	var applicationErr *ApplicationError
	if errors.As(err, &applicationErr) {
		// retrieve error message
		fmt.Println(applicationError.Error())

		// handle Activity errors (created via NewApplicationError() API)
		var detailMsg string // assuming Activity return error by NewApplicationError("message", true, "string details")
		applicationErr.Details(&detailMsg) // extract strong typed details

		// handle Activity errors (errors created other than using NewApplicationError() API)
		switch applicationErr.Type() {
		case "CustomErrTypeA":
			// handle CustomErrTypeA
		case CustomErrTypeB:
			// handle CustomErrTypeB
		default:
			// newer version of Activity could return new errors that Workflow was not aware of.
		}
	}

	var canceledErr *CanceledError
	if errors.As(err, &canceledErr) {
		// handle cancellation
	}

	var timeoutErr *TimeoutError
	if errors.As(err, &timeoutErr) {
		// handle timeout, could check timeout type by timeoutErr.TimeoutType()
        switch err.TimeoutType() {
        case commonpb.ScheduleToStart:
                // Handle ScheduleToStart timeout.
        case commonpb.StartToClose:
                // Handle StartToClose timeout.
        case commonpb.Heartbeat:
                // Handle heartbeat timeout.
        default:
        }
	}

	var panicErr *PanicError
	if errors.As(err, &panicErr) {
		// handle panic, message and stack trace are available by panicErr.Error() and panicErr.StackTrace()
	}
}
```

## Go SDK Selectors {#selectors}

### Overview

In Go, the `select` statement lets a goroutine wait on multiple communication operations.
A `select` **blocks until one of its cases can run**, then it executes that case.
It chooses one at random if multiple are ready.

However, a normal Go select statement can not be used inside of Workflows directly because of the random nature.
Temporal's Go SDK `Selector`s are similar and act as a replacement.
They can block on sending and receiving from Channels but as a bonus can listen on Future deferred work.
Usage of Selectors to defer and process work (in place of Go's `select`) are necessary in order to ensure deterministic Workflow code execution (though using `select` in Activity code is fine).

### Full API Example

The API is sufficiently different from `select` that it bears documenting:

```go
func SampleWorkflow(ctx workflow.Context) error {
	// standard Workflow setup code omitted...

	// API Example: declare a new selector
	selector := workflow.NewSelector(ctx)

	// API Example: defer code execution until the Future that represents Activity result is ready
	work := workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, ExampleActivity)
	selector.AddFuture(work, func(f workflow.Future) {
		// deferred code omitted...
	})

	// more parallel timers and activities initiated...

	// API Example: receive information from a Channel
	var signalVal string
	channel := workflow.GetSignalChannel(ctx, channelName)
	selector.AddReceive(channel, func(c workflow.ReceiveChannel, more bool) {
		// matching on the channel doesn't consume the message.
	 	// So it has to be explicitly consumed here
		c.Receive(ctx, &signalVal)
		// do something with received information
	})

	// API Example: block until the next Future is ready to run
	// important! none of the deferred code runs until you call selector.Select
	selector.Select(ctx)

	// Todo: document selector.HasPending
}
```

### Using Selectors with Futures

You usually add `Future`s after `Activities`:

```go
// API Example: defer code execution until after an activity is done
work := workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, ExampleActivity)
selector.AddFuture(work, func(f workflow.Future) {
	// deferred code omitted...
})
```

`selector.Select(ctx)` is the primary mechanism which blocks on and executes `Future` work.
It is intentionally flexible; you may call it conditionally or multiple times:

```go
	// API Example: blocking conditionally
  if somecondition != nil {
		selector.Select(ctx)
  }

	// API Example: popping off all remaining Futures
  for i := 0; i < len(someArray); i++ {
		selector.Select(ctx) // this will wait for one branch
		// you can interrupt execution here
	}
```

A Future matches only once per Selector instance even if Select is called multiple times.
If multiple items are available, the order of matching is not defined.

#### Using Selectors with Timers

An important use case of futures is setting up a race between a timer and a pending activity, effectively adding a "soft" timeout that doesn't result in any errors or retries of that activity.

For example, [the Timer sample](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/master/timer) shows how you can write a long running order processing operation where:

- if processing takes too long, we send out a notification email to user about the delay, but we won't cancel the operation
- if the operation finishes before the timer fires, then we want to cancel the timer.

```go
var processingDone bool
f := workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, OrderProcessingActivity)
selector.AddFuture(f, func(f workflow.Future) {
	processingDone = true
	// cancel timerFuture
	cancelHandler()
})

// use timer future to send notification email if processing takes too long
timerFuture := workflow.NewTimer(childCtx, processingTimeThreshold)
selector.AddFuture(timerFuture, func(f workflow.Future) {
	if !processingDone {
		// processing is not done yet when timer fires, send notification email
		_ = workflow.ExecuteActivity(ctx, SendEmailActivity).Get(ctx, nil)
	}
})

// wait the timer or the order processing to finish
selector.Select(ctx)
```

We create timers with the `workflow.NewTimer` API.

### Using Selectors with Channels

`selector.AddReceive(channel, func(c workflow.ReceiveChannel, more bool) {})` is the primary mechanism which receives messages from `Channels`.

```go
// API Example: receive information from a Channel
var signalVal string
channel := workflow.GetSignalChannel(ctx, channelName)
selector.AddReceive(channel, func(c workflow.ReceiveChannel, more bool) {
	c.Receive(ctx, &signalVal)
	// do something with received information
})
```

Merely matching on the channel doesn't consume the message; it has to be explicitly consumed with a `c.Receive(ctx, &signalVal)` call.

### Querying Selector State

You can use the `selector.HasPending` API to ensure that signals are not lost when a Workflow is closed (e.g. by `ContinueAsNew`).

### Learn More

Usage of Selectors is best learned by example:

- Setting up a race condition between an Activity and a Timer, and conditionally execute ([Timer example](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/14980b3792cc3a8447318fefe9a73fe0a580d4b9/timer/workflow.go))
- Receiving information in a Channel ([Mutex example](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/14980b3792cc3a8447318fefe9a73fe0a580d4b9/mutex/mutex_workflow.go))
- Looping through a list of work and scheduling them all in parallel ([DSL example](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/14980b3792cc3a8447318fefe9a73fe0a580d4b9/dsl/workflow.go))
- Executing activities in parallel, pick the first result, cancel remainder ([Pick First example](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go/blob/14980b3792cc3a8447318fefe9a73fe0a580d4b9/pickfirst/pickfirst_workflow.go))
