---
id: visibility
title: Namespace Visibility - Go SDK feature guide
sidebar_label: Visibility
sidebar_position: 6
description: Learn how to use the Temporal Go SDK's visibility features.
slug: /dev-guide/go/features/visibility
toc_max_heading_level: 4
keywords:
- api
- developer-guide-doc-type
- go sdk
- how-to-doc-type
- list filter
- list filters
- search attributes
- temporal client
- visibility
- workflow execution
- workflow executions
- workflows
tags:
- api
- developer-guide-doc-type
- go-sdk
- how-to-doc-type
- list-filter
- list-filters
- search-attributes
- temporal-client
- visibility
- workflow-execution
- workflow-executions
- workflows
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

The term Visibility, within the Temporal Platform, refers to the subsystems and APIs that enable an operator to view Workflow Executions that currently exist within a Cluster.

## How to use Search Attributes {#search-attributes}

The typical method of retrieving a Workflow Execution is by its Workflow Id.

However, sometimes you'll want to retrieve one or more Workflow Executions based on another property. For example, imagine you want to get all Workflow Executions of a certain type that have failed within a time range, so that you can start new ones with the same arguments.

You can do this with [Search Attributes](/visibility#search-attribute).

- [Default Search Attributes](/visibility#default-search-attributes) like `WorkflowType`, `StartTime` and `ExecutionStatus` are automatically added to Workflow Executions.
- _Custom Search Attributes_ can contain their own domain-specific data (like `customerId` or `numItems`).
  - A few [generic Custom Search Attributes](/visibility#custom-search-attributes) like `CustomKeywordField` and `CustomIntField` are created by default in Temporal's [Docker Compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose).

The steps to using custom Search Attributes are:

- Create a new Search Attribute in your Cluster using `tctl search-attribute create` or the Cloud UI.
- Set the value of the Search Attribute for a Workflow Execution:
  - On the Client by including it as an option when starting the Execution.
  - In the Workflow by calling `UpsertSearchAttributes`.
- Read the value of the Search Attribute:
  - On the Client by calling `DescribeWorkflow`.
  - In the Workflow by looking at `WorkflowInfo`.
- Query Workflow Executions by the Search Attribute using a [List Filter](/visibility#list-filter):
  - [In `tctl`](/tctl-v1/workflow#list).
  - In code by calling `ListWorkflowExecutions`.

Here is how to query Workflow Executions:

The [ListWorkflow()](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/client#Client.ListWorkflow) function retrieves a list of [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution) that match the [Search Attributes](/visibility#search-attribute) of a given [List Filter](/visibility#list-filter).
The metadata returned from the [Visibility](/clusters#visibility) store can be used to get a Workflow Execution's history and details from the [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) store.

Use a List Filter to define a `request` to pass into `ListWorkflow()`.

```go
request := &workflowservice.ListWorkflowExecutionsRequest{ Query: "CloseTime = missing" }
```

This `request` value returns only open Workflows.
For more List Filter examples, see the [examples provided for List Filters in the Temporal Visibility guide.](/visibility#list-filter-examples)

```go
resp, err := temporalClient.ListWorkflow(ctx.Background(), request)
if err != nil {
  return err
}

fmt.Println("First page of results:")
for _, exec := range resp.Executions {
  fmt.Printf("Workflow ID %v\n", exec.Execution.WorkflowId)
}
```

## How to set custom Search Attributes {#custom-search-attributes}

After you've created custom Search Attributes in your Cluster (using `tctl search-attribute create`or the Cloud UI), you can set the values of the custom Search Attributes when starting a Workflow.

Provide key-value pairs in [`StartWorkflowOptions.SearchAttributes`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/internal#StartWorkflowOptions).

Search Attributes are represented as `map[string]interface{}`.
The values in the map must correspond to the [Search Attribute's value type](/visibility#types):

- Bool = `bool`
- Datetime = `time.Time`
- Double = `float64`
- Int = `int64`
- Keyword = `string`
- Text = `string`

If you had custom Search Attributes `CustomerId` of type Keyword and `MiscData` of type Text, you would provide `string` values:

```go
func (c *Client) CallYourWorkflow(ctx context.Context, workflowID string, payload map[string]interface{}) error {
    // ...
    searchAttributes := map[string]interface{}{
        "CustomerId": payload["customer"],
        "MiscData": payload["miscData"]
    }
    options := client.StartWorkflowOptions{
        SearchAttributes:   searchAttributes
        // ...
    }
    we, err := c.Client.ExecuteWorkflow(ctx, options, app.YourWorkflow, payload)
    // ...
}
```

## How to upsert Search Attributes {#upsert-search-attributes}

You can upsert Search Attributes to add or update Search Attributes from within Workflow code.

In advanced cases, you may want to dynamically update these attributes as the Workflow progresses.
[UpsertSearchAttributes](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/workflow#UpsertSearchAttributes) is used to add or update Search Attributes from within Workflow code.

`UpsertSearchAttributes` will merge attributes to the existing map in the Workflow.
Consider this example Workflow code:

```go
func YourWorkflow(ctx workflow.Context, input string) error {

    attr1 := map[string]interface{}{
        "CustomIntField": 1,
        "CustomBoolField": true,
    }
    workflow.UpsertSearchAttributes(ctx, attr1)

    attr2 := map[string]interface{}{
        "CustomIntField": 2,
        "CustomKeywordField": "seattle",
    }
    workflow.UpsertSearchAttributes(ctx, attr2)
}
```

After the second call to `UpsertSearchAttributes`, the map will contain:

```go
map[string]interface{}{
    "CustomIntField": 2, // last update wins
    "CustomBoolField": true,
    "CustomKeywordField": "seattle",
}
```

## How to remove a Search Attribute from a Workflow {#remove-search-attribute}

To remove a Search Attribute that was previously set, set it to an empty array: `[]`.

**There is no support for removing a field.**

However, to achieve a similar effect, set the field to some placeholder value.
For example, you could set `CustomKeywordField` to `impossibleVal`.
Then searching `CustomKeywordField != 'impossibleVal'` will match Workflows with `CustomKeywordField` not equal to `impossibleVal`, which includes Workflows without the `CustomKeywordField` set.
