---
id: namespaces
title: Namespaces
sidebar_label: Namespaces
description: This guide provides a comprehensive overview of Namespaces.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

This guide provides a comprehensive overview of Namespaces.

A Namespace is a unit of isolation within the Temporal Platform.

A single Namespace is still multi-tenant.

### Usage

You can use Namespaces to match the development lifecycle; for example, having separate `dev` and `prod` Namespaces.
Or you could use them to ensure Workflow Executions between different teams never communicate; such as ensuring that the `teamA` Namespace never impacts the `teamB` Namespace.

- If no other Namespace is specified, the Temporal Cluster uses the Namespace "default" for all Temporal SDKs and tctl.
  See the [Registration](#registration) section for details.
- **Case Insensitive**: Because of DNS, Namespaces are case insensitive on the network and routing side.
  We recommend using lowercase for namespace names to avoid potential issues.
- **Membership**: [Task Queue](/tasks#task-queue) names and [Workflow Ids](/workflows#workflow-id) must all correspond to a specific Namespace.
  For example, when a Workflow Execution is spawned, it does so within a specific Namespace.
- **Uniqueness**: Temporal guarantees a unique Workflow Id within a Namespace.
  Workflow Executions may have the same Workflow Id if they are in different Namespaces.
- **Namespace Configuration**: Various configuration options like the [Retention Period](/clusters#retention-period) and the [Archival](/clusters#archival) destination are configured per Namespace through a special CRUD API or through [`tctl`](/tctl).

### Registration

Registering a Namespace creates the Namespace on the Temporal Cluster.
When you register your Namespace, you must also set the [Retention Period](/clusters#retention-period) for the Namespace.

All SDKs require a Namespace on the Cluster for their Client calls. If not set using Client options, the Workflow Client API looks for the `default` Namespace. If there is no default Namespace registered with your Temporal Cluster, all calls will throw errors.
You must register your Namespace with the Temporal Cluster before setting it in your Client.

You can register your Namespaces in the following ways:

- In your Cluster setup, create your Namespaces, including the default, in your setup script.
  For example:

  - If deploying through Docker Compose or using the [auto-setup image](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-builds/blob/main/docker/auto-setup.sh) in a custom Docker Compose application, the Namespace "default" is created, through the auto-setup script.
  - If deploying through the [Temporal Helm charts](https://github.com/temporalio/helm-charts), you can create the "default" Namespace by using tctl; for example, `tctl namespace default`.

- In your Client program, register your Namespace using `RegisterNamespaceRequest` API available in all the SDKs.

  - [How to register a new Namespace using SDK](/application-development/features#namespaces)

- Use the `tctl namespace register` command with the `--retention` modfiier to register your Namespaces, one by one, and set the Retention Period on each.

  - [How to register a new Namespace using tctl](/tctl/namespace/register)

Note that registering a Namespace takes up to 15 seconds to complete. Ensure that you are waiting for this process to complete before making calls to the Namespace.

### Setting

Set Namespaces in your SDK Client to isolate your Workflow Executions to the Namespace.
If you do not set a Namespace, all Workflow Executions started using the Client will be associated with the "default" Namespace. This means, you must have a default Namespace called "default" registered with your Temporal Cluster. See [Registration](#Registration) for details.

- [How to set the Namespace for a Temporal Client](/application-development/foundations#set-namespace)
- [How to list Namespaces in a Cluster using tctl](/tctl/namespace/list)
- [How to view (describe) Namespace metadata and details using tctl](/tctl/namespace/describe)

## Global Namespace

A Global Namespace is a [Namespace](#) that exists across Clusters when [Multi-Cluster Replication](/clusters#multi-cluster-replication) is set up.

- [How to register a Global Namespace](/tctl/namespace/register/#--global-namespace)
- [How to change the active Cluster for a Global Namespace](/tctl/namespace/update/#--active-cluster)

The Global Namespace feature enables Workflow Executions to progress through another Cluster in the event of a failover.

A Global Namespace may be replicated to any number of Clusters, but is active in only one Cluster at any given time.

For a failover to be successful, Worker Processes must be polling for Tasks for the Global Namespace on all Clusters.

A Global Namespace has a failover version.
Because a failover can be triggered from any Cluster, the failover version prevents certain conflicts from occurring if a failover is mistakenly triggered simultaneously on two Clusters.

Only the active Cluster dispatches [Tasks](/tasks#); however, certain conflicts are possible.
Unlike regular Namespaces, which provide at-most-once semantics for an Activity Execution, Global Namespaces can support only at-least-once semantics (see [Conflict resolution](/concepts/what-is-multi-cluster-replication/#conflict-resolution)).
Worker Processes on the standby Clusters are idle until a failover occurs and their Cluster becomes active.

Temporal Application API calls made to a non-active Cluster are rejected with a **NamespaceNotActiveError** which contains the name of the current active Cluster.
It is the responsibility of the Temporal Application to call the Cluster that is currently active.

