---
id: commands
title: Command reference
description: A Command is a requested action issued by a Worker to the Temporal Cluster after a Workflow Task Execution completes.
tags:
  - reference
  - explanation
---

import CenteredImage from "../components/CenteredImage.js"

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
import * as WhatIsAWorkflowTaskExecution from '../content/what-is-a-workflow-task-execution.md'
import * as WhatIsAWorker from '../content/what-is-a-worker.md'
import * as WhatIsATemporalCluster from '../content/what-is-a-temporal-cluster.md'
import * as WhatIsAWorkflowExecution from '../content/what-is-a-workflow-execution.md'
import * as WhatIsAnEventHistory from '../content/what-is-an-event-history.md'
import * as WhatIsAnEvent from '../content/what-is-an-event.md'

### What is a Command?

A Command is a requested action issued by a <preview page={WhatIsAWorker}>Worker</preview> to the <preview page={WhatIsATemporalCluster}>Temporal Cluster</preview> after a <preview page={WhatIsAWorkflowTaskExecution}>Workflow Task Execution</preview> completes.

The action that the Cluster takes is recorded in the <preview page={WhatIsAWorkflowExecution}>Workflow Execution's</preview> <preview page={WhatIsAnEventHistory}>Event History</preview> as an <preview page={WhatIsAnEvent}>Event</preview>.
The Workflow Execution can await on some of the Events that come as a result from some of the Commands.

During a Workflow Task Execution there may be several Commands that are generated.
The Commands are batched and sent to the Cluster as part of the Workflow Task Execution completion request, after the Workflow Task has progressed as far as it can with the Workflow function.
There will always be [WorkflowTaskStarted](/docs/reference/events/#workflowtaskstarted) and [WorkflowTaskCompleted](/docs/reference/events/#workflowtaskcompleted) Events in the Event History when there is a Workflow Task Execution completion request.

<CenteredImage
imagePath="/diagrams/commands.svg"
imageSize="100"
title="Commands are generated by the use of Workflow APIs in your code"
/>

The following Commands are defined in the Temporal gRPC API here: [https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/master/temporal/api/command/v1/message.proto](https://github.com/temporalio/api/blob/master/temporal/api/command/v1/message.proto)

### CompleteWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered when the Workflow function execution returns.
It indicates to the Cluster that the Workflow Execution is complete.
The corresponding Event for this Command is one of the few Events that will be the last in a Workflow Execution Event History.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [WorkflowExecutionCompleted](/docs/reference/events/#workflowexecutioncompleted)

### ContinueAsNewWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered when there is a call to Continue-As-New from within the Workflow.
The corresponding Event for this Command is one of the few Events that will be the last in a Workflow Execution Event History.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [WorkflowExecutionContinuedAsNew](/docs/reference/events/#workflowexecutioncontinuedasnew)

### FailWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered when the Workflow Execution returns an error or an exception is thrown.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [WorkflowExecutionFailed](/docs/reference/events/#workflowexecutionfailed)

### CancelWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered when the Workflow has successfully cleaned up after receiving a Cancellation Request (which will be present as [WorkflowExecutionCancelRequestedEvent](/docs/reference/events/#workflowexecutioncancelrequested) in the Event History).
The Corresponding Event for this Command is one of the few Events that will be the last in a Workflow Execution Event History.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [WorkflowExecutionCanceled](/docs/reference/events/#workflowexecutioncanceled)

### StartChildWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered by a call to spawn a Child Workflow Execution.

- Awaitable: Yes, a Workflow Execution can await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [ChildWorkflowExecutionStarted](/docs/reference/events/#childworkflowexecutionstarted)

### SignalExternalWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered by a call to Signal another Workflow Execution.

- Awaitable: Yes, a Workflow Execution can await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [SignalExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiated](/docs/reference/events/#signalexternalworkflowexecutioninitiated)

### RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecution

This Command is triggered by a call to request cancellation of another Workflow Execution.

- Awaitable: Yes, a Workflow Execution can await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [RequestCancelExternalWorkflowExecutionInitiated](/docs/reference/events/#requestcancelexternalworkflowexecutioninitiated)

### ScheduleActivityTask

This Command is triggered by a call to execute an Activity.

- Awaitable: Yes, a Workflow Execution can await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [ActivityTaskScheduled](/docs/reference/events/#activitytaskscheduled)

### RequestCancelActivityTask

This Command is triggered by a call to request the cancellation of an Activity Task.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [ActivityTaskCancelRequested](/docs/reference/events/#activitytaskcancelrequested)

### StartTimer

This Command is triggered by a call to start a Timer.

- Awaitable: Yes, a Workflow Execution can await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [TimerStarted](/docs/reference/events/#timerstarted)

### CancelTimer

This Command is triggered by a call to cancel a Timer.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [TimerCanceled](/docs/reference/events/#timercanceled)

### RecordMarker

This Command is triggered by the SDK.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [MarkerRecorded](/docs/reference/events/#markerrecorded)

### UpsertWorkflowSearchAttributes

This Command is triggered by a call to "upsert" Workflow Search Attributes.

- Awaitable: No, a Workflow Execution can not await on the action resulting from this Command.
- Corresponding Event: [UpsertWorkflowSearchAttributes](/docs/reference/events/#upsertworkflowsearchattributes)
