---
id: workflow-execution-properties
title: What are all the properties of a Workflow Execution?
sidebar_label: Workflow Execution properties
---

Each Workflow Execution has a set of properties.

## Workflow Id

A unique identifier for a [Workflow Execution](#workflow-execution).

- Temporal guarantees the uniqueness of an Id within a [Namespace](#namespace).
- An attempt to start a [Workflow](#workflow) with a duplicate Id results in an **already started** error if there is another open Workflow execution. However, this behavior depends on the `WorkflowIdReusePolicy` flag; if set to `ALLOW_DUPLICATE`, it is possible to start a new execution with the same Workflow Id.

This property can be customized in Workflow Options at invocation.

## Run Id

A UUID that a Temporal service assigns to each [Workflow](#workflow) run.

- Temporal guarantees that only one [Workflow Execution](#workflow-execution) with a given [Workflow Id](#workflow-id) can be open at a time. But after the [Workflow Execution](#workflow-execution) has completed, if allowed by a configured policy, you might be able to re-execute a [Workflow](#workflow) after it has closed or failed, using the same [Workflow Id](#workflow-id).
- Each such re-execution is called a run. Run Id is used to uniquely identify a run even if it shares a [Workflow Id](#workflow-id) with others.

This property is auto generated by the system.

## Task Queue

This property must be specified by the developer in the Workflow Options at invocation.

## Workflow Execution Timeout

This is the maximum time that a Workflow Execution can be executing for (have an Open status) including retries and any usage of [Continue As New](#continue-as-new).
**The default value is set to 10 years.**
If this timeout is reached then the Workflow Execution will change to a Timed Out status.

This timeout is most commonly used for stopping the execution of a [cron scheduled Workflow](#cron-schedule) after a certain amount of time has passed. This timeout is different from the [Workflow Run timeout](#workflow-run-timeout).

This property can be customized in the Workflow Options at invocation.

## Workflow Run Timeout

This is the maximum amount of time that a single Workflow Run is restricted to.
**The default is set to the same value as the [Execution timeout](#execution-timeout).**

This timeout is most commonly used to limit the execution time of a single [cron scheduled Workflow Execution](#cron-schedule).
If this timeout is reached and there is an associated Retry Policy, the Workflow will be retried before any scheduling occurs.
If there is no Retry Policy then the Workflow will be scheduled per the [cron schedule](#cron-schedule).

This property can be customized in the Workflow Options at invocation.

## Workflow Task Timeout

This is the maximum amount of time that the Server will wait for the Worker to start processing a [Workflow Task](#workflow-task) after the Task has been pulled from the Task Queue.
**The default value is 10 seconds.**

This timeout is primarily available to recognize whether a Worker has gone down so that the Workflow Execution can be recovered on a different Worker.
The main reason for increasing the default value would be to accommodate a Workflow Execution that has a very long Workflow Execution History that could take longer than 10 seconds for the Worker to load.

This property can be customized in the Workflow Options at invocation.

## Namespace

## Wait For Cancellation

## Data Converter

## Retry Policy

## Cron Schedule

## Context Propagators

## Memo

## Search Attributes

## Parent Close Policy

## What the properties of Workflow Execution invocation?

### Workflow Id Reuse Policy
