---
id: config
title: tctl version-next config command reference
sidebar_label: config
description: How to use the tctl version-next config command
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The `tctl config` command allows the user to configure their tctl environment.

`tctl config <command> [options] [args]`

- [`tctl config current-env`](/tctl-next/config#current-env)
- [`tctl config get`](/tctl-next/config#get)
- [`tctl config set`](/tctl-next/config#set)
- [`tctl config show-env`](/tctl-next/config#show-env)
- [`tctl config use-env`](/tctl-next/config#use-env)

## current-env

The `tctl config current-env` command prints the name of the current environment.

`tctl config current-env <modifiers>`

This command has no modifiers.

## get

The `tctl config get` command prints the value of a given environmental property.
The command is written as follows:

`tctl config get [options] [env.env_name]property_name`

This command has no modifiers.

## set

The `tctl config set` command modifies the configuration values within your environment.
Use this command to set the value of a given environmental property.

`tctl config set [options] [env.env_name]property_name`

This command has no modifiers.

## show-env

The `tctl config show-env` command prints the properties of the given environment.

`tctl config show-env [options] ev_name`

The following modifier supports and controls the behavior of the command.

- [--output](/tctl-next/modifiers#--output)

## use-env

The `tctl config use-env` command switches the environment that tctl is operating in.

`tctl config use-env [options] env_name`

There are no modifiers for this command.

