---
id: modifiers
title: tctl version-next command modifiers reference
sidebar_label: modifiers
description: How to use the tctl version-next command modifiers
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<!-- THIS FILE IS GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY -->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Specify the name of the active [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster/) when registering a [Namespace](/namespaces#).
This value changes for Global Namespaces when a failover occurs.

Alias: `--ac`

## --activity-id

Specify the [Activity Id](/activities#activity-id) of an [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution) to execute a command on.

Alias: `--aid`

## --archived

**This is an experimental feature.**

List archived Workflow Executions.

Alias: `-a`

## --batch-type

Specify the operation that this batch job performs. The supported operations are `signal`, `cancel`, and `terminate`.

Alias: `--bt`

## --clusters

Specify a list of [Temporal Clusters](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster/) when registering a [Namespace](/namespaces#).

The list contains the names of Clusters (separated by spaces) to which the Namespace can fail over.
Make sure to include to the currently active Cluster.
This is a read-only setting and cannot be changed.

This modifier is valid only when the `--global-namespace` modifier is set to true.

Alias `--cl`

## --cron

Specify a [Cron Schedule](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cron-job#cron-schedules).

## --description

Specify a description when registering a [Namespace](/namespaces#).

Alias `--d`

## --detail

Specify details of the reason for failing an [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution).

## --dry-run

Simulate a reset without resetting any [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution).
Output is logged to `stdout`.

## --event-id

Specify the `eventId` of any event after `WorkflowTaskStarted` to which you want to reset.
Valid values are `WorkflowTaskCompleted`, `WorkflowTaskFailed`, and `WorkflowTaskTimeout`.

## --exclude-file

Provide an input file that specifies [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution) to exclude from resetting.

Each line contains one [Workflow Id](/workflows#workflow-id).

## --execution-modifier

Specify the [Start-To-Close Timeout](/activities#start-to-close-timeout) of the [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) in seconds.
The default value is 0.

Alias: `--et`

## --fields

Customize the fields to print.
Set to 'long' to automatically print more of the main fields.

## --follow

Follows the progress of a Workflow Execution.

Alias: `-f`

## --global-namespace

Specifies whether a [Namespace](/namespaces#) is a [Global Namespace](/namespaces#global-namespace).
When enabled, it controls the creation of replication tasks on updates allowing the state to be replicated across Clusters.
This is a read-only setting and cannot be changed.

Alias `--gn`

## --history-archival-state

Set the state of [Archival](/clusters#archival).
Valid values are `disabled` and `enabled`.

Alias `--has`

## --history-uri

Specify the URI for [Archival](/clusters#archival).
The URI cannot be changed after Archival is first enabled.

Alias `--huri`

## --identity

Specify the identity of the operator when using tctl to fail an [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution).

## --input-file

Pass input for the Workflow from a JSON file.
For multiple JSON objects, concatenate them and use spaces or newline characters as separators.
Input from the command line overwrites input from the file.

Alias: `--if`

## --input-parallelism

Specify the number of goroutines to run in parallel.
Each goroutine processes one line for every second.
The default is 1.

## --input

Pass input for the Workflow.
Input must be in JSON format.
For multiple JSON objects, pass each in a separate `--input` option. Use `null` for null values.

Alias: `-i`

## --job-id

_Required modifier_

Specify the job ID of a batch job.

Alias: `--jid`

## --limit

Sets the number of items to print.

## --max-field-modifier

Specify the maximum length for each attribute field.
The default value is 500.

Alias: `--maxl`

## --memo-file

Pass information for a memo from a JSON file.
For multiple JSON objects, concatenate them and use spaces or newline characters as separators.
The order must match the order of keys in `--memo-key`.

## --memo-key

Pass a key for a memo.
For multiple keys, concatenate them and use spaces as separators.

## --memo

Pass a memo.
A memo is information in JSON format that can be shown when the Workflow is listed.
For multiple memos, concatenate them and use spaces as separators.
The order must match the order of keys in `--memo-key`.

## --name

Specify the name of a [Signal](/workflows#signal).

Alias: `-n`

## --namespace-data

Specify data for a [Namespace](/namespaces#) in the form of key-value pairs (such as `k1:v1,k2:v2,k3:v3`).

Alias `--nd`

## --namespace

Specify a Namespace hosted on Temporal Cloud. If not specified, the value of the environment variable $TEMPORAL_CLOUD_NAMESPACE is used.

Alias: `-n`

## --no-pager

Disables the interactive pager.

Alias: `-P`

## --non-deterministic

Indicate that a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) should be reset only if its last event is `WorkflowTaskFailed` with a nondeterministic error.

## --output-filename

Serialize an Event to a file.

Alias: `--of`

## --modifier

Specifies the format for printed output.

Alias: `-o`

Values: table, json, card

## --owner-email

Specify the email address of the [Namespace](/namespaces#) owner.

Alias `--oe`

## --pager

Specifies the pager to use.

Values: less, more, favoritePager..[$PAGER]

## --pagesize

Specify the maximum number of batch jobs to list on a page. The default value is 30.

Alias: `--ps`

## --query-reject-condition

Reject Queries based on Workflow state.
Valid values are `not-open` and `not-completed-cleanly`.

Alias: `--qrc`

## --query-modifier

Specify the type of Query to run.

Alias: `--qt`

## --query

_Required modifier_

The `--query` flag is supported only when [Advanced Visibility](/visibility#advanced-visibility) is configured with the Cluster.

Specify an SQL-like query of [Search Attributes](/visibility#search-attribute).

Using the `--query` option causes tctl to ignore all other filter options, including `open`, `earliest-time`, `latest-time`, `workflow-id`, and `workflow-type`.

Alias: `-q`

## --raw

Print properties exactly as they are stored.

## --reason

Specify a reason for terminating the [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution).

Alias: `-r`

## --reset-bad-binary-checksum

Specify the binary checksum when using `--reset-type BadBinary`.

## --reset-points-only

Show only events that are eligible for reset.

## --reset-reapply-type

Specify the types of events to reapply after the reset point.
Valid values are `All`, `Signal`, and `None`. The default is `All`.

**Example**

```bash
tctl workflow <command> --reset-reapply-type <value>
```

## --reset-type

Specify the event type to which you want to reset.

| Value                | Description                                                 |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `FirstWorkflowTask`  | Reset to the beginning of the Event History.                |
| `LastWorkflowTask`   | Reset to the end of the Event History.                      |
| `LastContinuedAsNew` | Reset to the end of the Event History for the previous Run. |
| `BadBinary`          | Reset to the point where a bad binary was used.             |

## --result

Specify the result of an [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution) when using tctl to complete the Activity Execution.

## --retention

Set the [Retention Period](/clusters#retention-period) for the [Namespace](/namespaces#).

The Retention Period applies to Closed [Workflow Executions](/workflows#workflow-execution).

Alias `--rd`

## --rps

Specify RPS of processing. The default value is 50.

## --run-id

Show the History of a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) by specifying a [Run Id](/workflows#run-id).

Alias: `--rid`

## --run-timeout

Single Workflow Run timeout, in seconds.

Alias: `--rt`

## --search-attribute-key

Specify a [Search Attribute](/visibility#search-attribute) key.
For multiple keys, concatenate them and use pipes (`|`) as separators.

To list valid keys, use the `tctl cluster get-search-attribute` command.

## --search-attribute-value

Specify a [Search Attribute](/visibility#search-attribute) value.
For multiple values, concatenate them and use pipes (`|`) as separators.
If a value is an array, use JSON format, such as `["a","b"]`, `[1,2]`, `["true","false"]`, or `["2022-06-07T17:16:34-08:00","2022-06-07T18:16:34-08:00"]`.

To list valid keys and value types, use the `tctl cluster get-search-attribute` command.

## --signal-name

Specify the name of a [Signal](/workflows#signal). This modifier is required when `--batch-type` is `signal`.

Alias: `--sn`

## --skip-base-is-not-current

Indicate that a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) should be skipped if the base Run is not the current Run.

## --skip-current-open

Indicate that a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) should be skipped if the current Run is open for the same [Workflow Id](/workflows#workflow-id) as the base Run.

## --task-queue-type

Specify the type of a [Task Queue](/tasks#task-queue).
The type can be `workflow` or `activity`.
The default is `workflow`.

Alias: `--tqt`

## --task-queue

Specify a [Task Queue](/tasks#task-queue).

Alias: `--t`

## --task-timeout

Specify the [Start-To-Close Timeout](/activities#start-to-close-timeout) of the [Workflow Task](/tasks#workflow-task) in seconds.
The default value is 10.

Alias: `--tt`

## --time-format

Specifies the format for time values.

Values: relative, iso, raw

## --type

Specify the name of a [Workflow Type](/workflows#workflow-type).

Alias: `-t`

## --visibility-archival-state

Set the visibility state for [Archival](/clusters#archival).
Valid values are `disabled` and `enabled`.

Alias `--vas`

## --visibility-uri

Specify the visibility URI for [Archival](/clusters#archival).
The URI cannot be changed after Archival is first enabled.

Alias `--vuri`

## --workflow-id-reuse-policy

Specify a [Workflow Id Reuse Policy](/workflows#workflow-id-reuse-policy).
Configure if the same [Workflow Id](/workflows#workflow-id) is allowed for use in new [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution).

Values: `AllowDuplicate`, `AllowDuplicateFailedOnly`, `RejectDuplicate`

**Examples**

```bash
tctl workflow <command> --workflow-id-reuse-policy AllowDuplicate
tctl workflow <command> --workflow-id-reuse-policy AllowDuplicateFailedOnly
tctl workflow <command> --workflow-id-reuse-policy RejectDuplicate
```

## --workflow-id

Show the History of a [Workflow Execution](/workflows#workflow-execution) by specifying a [Workflow Id](/workflows#workflow-id).

Alias: `--wid`

## --workflow-task-timeout

Specify the [Start-To-Close Timeout](/activities#start-to-close-timeout) of the [Workflow Task](/tasks#workflow-task) in seconds.
The default value is 10.

Alias: `--wtt`

## --yes-mod

Disable the confirmation prompt by automatically approving the prompt.
